A TRIPARTITE PLAN-BASED MODEL OF DIALOGUE

Lynn Lambert
Sandra Carberry
Department of Computer and Information Sciences
University of Delaware
Newark, Delaware 19716, USA

Abstract!

This paper presents a tripartite model of dialogue in
which three different kinds of actions are modeled:
domain actions, problem-solving actions, and dis-
course or communicative actions. We contend that
our process model provides a more finely differenti-
ated representation of user intentions than previous
models; enables the incremental recognition of com-
municative actions that cannot be recognized from
a single utterance alone; and accounts for implicit
acceptance of a communicated proposition.

1 Introduction

This paper presents a tripartite model of di-
alogue in which intentions are modeled on three
levels: the domain level (with domain goals such as
traveling by train), the problem-solving level (with
plan-construction goals such as instantiating a pa-
rameter in a plan), and the discourse level (with
communicative goals such as expressing surprise).
Our process model has three major advantages over
previous approaches: 1) it provides a better repre-
sentation of user intentions than previous models
and allows the nuances of different kinds of goals
and processing to be captured at each level; 2) it
enables the incremental recognition of communica-
tive goals that cannot be recognized from a single
utterance alone; and 3) it differentiates between il-
locutionary effects and desired perlocutionary ef-
fects, and thus can account for the failure of an
inform act to change a hearer’s beliefs(Per90]?.

2 Limitations of Current
Models of Discourse

A number of researchers have contended
that a coherent discourse consists of segments
that are related to one another through some
type of structuring relation[Gri75, MT83] or have
used rhetorical relations to generate coherent
text{Hov88, MP90]. In addition, some researchers

1 This material is based upon work supported by the Na
tional Science Foundation under Grant No. IRI-8909332.
The Government has certain rights in this material.

2 We would like to thank Kathy McCoy for her comments
on various drafts of this paper.

47

have modeled discourse based on the semantic rela-
tionship of individual clauses{Pol86a] or groups of
clauses[Rei78}. But all of the above fail to capture
the goal-oriented nature of discourse. Grosz and
Sidner[GS86] argue that recognizing the structural
relationships among the intentions underlying a dis-
course is necessary to identify discourse structure,
but they do not provide the details of a compu-
tational mechanism for recognizing these relation-
ships.

To account for the goal-oriented nature of
discourse, many researchers have adopted the
planning/plan-recognition paradigm[AP80, PA80}
in which utterances are viewed as part of a plan
for accomplishing a goal and understanding con-
sists of recognizing this plan. The most well-
developed plan-based model of discourse is that of
Litman and Allen{LA87]. However, their discourse
plans conflate problem-solving actions and commu-
nicative actions. For example, their Correct-Plan
has the flavor of a problem-solving plan that one
would pursue in attempting to construct another
plan, whereas their Identify-Parameter takes on
some of the characteristics of a communicative plan
that one would pursue when conveying information.
More significantly, their model cannot capture the
relationship among several utterances that are all
part of the same higher-level discourse plan if that
plan cannot be recognized and added to their plan
stack based on analysis of the first utterance alone.
Thus, if more than one utterance is necessary to
recognize a discourse goal (as is often the case, for
example, with warnings), Litman and Allen’s model
will not be able to identify the discourse goal pur-
sued by the two utterances together or what role
the first utterance plays with respect to the sec-
ond. Consider, for example, the following pair of
utterances:

(1) The city of crx is considering filing for
bankruptcy.
(2) One of your mutual funds owns zzz bonds.

Although neither of the two utterances alone con-
stitutes a warning, a natural language system must
be able to recognize the warning from the set of two
utterances together.

Our tripartite model of dialogue overcomes
these limitations. It differentiates among domain,
problem-solving, and communicative actions yet
models the relationships among them, and enables
the recognition of communicative actions that take
more than one utterance to achieve but which can-
not be recognized from the first utterance alone.

In the remainder of this paper, we will
present our tripartite model, motivating why our
model recognizes three different kinds of goals, de-
scribing our dialogue model and how it is built in-
crementally as a discourse proceeds, and illustrat-
ing this plan inference process with a sample dia-
logue. Finally, we will outline our current research
on modeling negotiation dialogues and recognizing
discourse acts such as expressing surprise.

3 A Tripartite Model
3.1 Kinds of Goals and Plans

Our plan recognition framework recognizes
three different kinds of goals: domain, problem-
solving, and discourse. In an information-seeking
or expert-consultation dialogue, one participant is
seeking information and advice about how to con-
struct a plan for achieving some domain goal. A
problem-solving goal is a metagoal that is pursued
in order to construct a domain plan[Wil81, LA87,
Ram8&9}. For example, if an agent has a goal of
earning an undergraduate degree, the agent might
have the problem-solving goal of selecting the in-
stantiation of the degree parameter as BA or BS
and then the problem-solving goal of building a sub-
plan for satisfying the requirements for that degree.
A number of researchers have demonstrated the im-
portance of modeling domain and problem-solving
goals[PA80, Wil81, LA87, vBC86, Car87, Ram89}.

Intuitively, a discourse goal is the com-
municative goal that a speaker has in making an
utterance[Car89], such as obtaining information
or expressing surprise. Recognition of discourse
goals provides expectations for subsequent utter-
ances and suggests how these utterances should be
interpreted. For example, the first two utterances
in the following exchange establish the expectation
that S1 will either accept $2’s response, or that 51
will pursue utterances directed toward understand-
ing and accepting it[Car89]. Consequently, S1’s sec-
ond utterance should be recognized as expressing
surprise at $2’s statement.

Sit: When does CS400 meet?
52: CS400 meets on Monday from 7-9p.m.
Sl: CS400 meets at night?

A robust natural language system must recognize
discourse goals and the beliefs underlying them in
order to respond appropriately.

The plan library for our process model con-
tains the system’s knowledge of goals, actions, and
plans. Although domain plans are not mutually
known by the participants[Pol86b], how to commu-
nicate and how to solve problems are common skills
that people use in a wide variety of contexts, so
the system can assume that knowledge about dis-
course and problem-solving plans is shared knowl-

48

edge. Our representation of a plan includes a
header giving the name of the plan and the action
it accomplishes, preconditions, applicability condi-
tions, constraints, a body, effects, and goals. Appli-
cability conditions represent conditions that must
be satisfied for the plan to be reasonable to pur-
sue in the given situation whereas constraints limit
the allowable instantiation of variables in each of
the components of a plan{LA87, Car87]. Especially
in the case of discourse plans, the goals and effects
are likely to be different. This allows us to dif-
ferentiate between illocutionary and perlocutionary
effects and capture the notion that one can, for ex-
ample, perform an inform act without the hearer
adopting the communicated proposition.? Figure 1
presents three discourse plans and one problem-
solving and domain plan.

3.2 Structure of the Model

Agents use utterances to perform commu-
nicative acts, such as informing or asking a ques-
tion. These discourse actions can in turn be part
of performing other discourse actions; for example,
providing background data can be part of asking
a question. Discourse actions can take more than
one utterance to complete; asking for information
requires that a speaker request the information and
believe that the request is acceptable (i.e., that the
speaker say enough to ensure that the speaker be-
lieves that the request is understandable, justified,
and the necessary background information is known
by the respondent). Thus, actions at the discourse
level form a tree structure in which each node rep-
resents a communicative action that a participant
is performing and the children of a node represent
communicative actions pursued in order to perform
the parent action.

Information needed for problem-solving ac-
tions is obtained through discourse actions, so dis-
course actions can be executed in order to perform
problem-solving actions as well as being part of
other discourse actions. Similarly, domain plans
are constructed through problem-solving actions, so
problem-solving actions can be executed in order to
eventually perform domain actions as well as being
part of plans for other problem-solving actions.

Therefore, our Dialogue Model (DM) con-

tains three levels of tree structures,? one for each
kind of action (discourse, problem-solving, and do-
main) with links among the actions on different lev-
els. At the lowest level the discourse actions are
represented; these actions may contribute to the
problem-solving actions at the middle level which,

4Consider, for example, someone saying “I informed you
of X but you wouldn’t believe me.”

*The DM is really a mental model of intentions[Pol86b}.
The structures shown in our figures implicitly capture a num-
ber of intentions that are attributed to the participants, such
as the intention that the hearer recognize that the speaker
believes the applicability conditions for the just initiated dis-
course actions are satisfied and the intention that the par-
ticipants follow through with the subactions that are part of
plans for actions in the DM.
Domain Plan-D1; {agent earns a minor in _subj}

 

Action:
Prec:
Body:

Effects:
Goal:

Get-Minor(-agent, .subj)

have-plan(.agent, Plan-D1, Get-minor(.agent, -subj))

1. Complete-Form(_agent, change-of-major-form, add-minor)
2. Take-Required-Courses(-agent, subj)

have-minor(-agent, subj)

have-minor(-agent, .subj)

Problem-solving Plan-P1: {-agenti and ~agent2 build a plan for .agent1 to do action}

Action:
AppCond:
Constr:

Pree:

Body:

Effects:
Goal:

Build-Plan(agent1, -agent2, action)

want(agentl, action)

plan-for(_plan, .action)

action-in-plan-for(laction, -action)

selected(agent1, -action, plan)

know(.agent2, want(_agenti, -action))

knowref(_agent1, -prop, prec-of(_prop, -plan))

knowref(agent2, _prop, prec-of(_prop, ~plan))

knowref(_agent1, action, need-do(.agent1, Jaction, action))
knowref(_agent2, action, need-do(_agent1, action, -action))

1. for all actions Jaction in plan, Instantiate-Vars(agent1, agent2, Jaction)
2. for all actions Jaction in -plan, Build-Plan(_agent1, agent2, Jaction)
have-plan(-agent1, -plan, -action)

have-plan{_agent1, -plan, -action)

Discourse Plan-C1: {-agent! asks -agent2 for the values of .term for which _prop is true}

Action:
AppCond:

Constr:
Body:

Effects:
Goal:

Ask-Ref(.agent1, agent2, term, -prop)

want(_agent1, knowref(agentl, -term, believe(agent2, -prop)))
~knowref(-agent1, term, believe(.agent2, -prop))

term-in(_term, -prop)

Request(-agent1, agent2, Informref(agent2, agent1, term, -prop))
Make-Question-Acceptable( agent, -agent2, _prop)

believe(_agent2, want(agent1, Informref(-agent2, -agent1, term, -prop)))
want(.agent2, Answer-Ref(-agent2, agent1, term, -prop))

Discourse Plan-C2: {-agent1 informs _agent2 of _prop}

Action:
AppCond:

Body:

Effects:
Goal:

Inform(-agent1, -agent2, -prop)

believe(-agent1, know(_agent1, -prop))
~believe(_agent1, believe(.agent2, -prop))

Tell(agent1, agent2, prop)
Make-Prop-Believable(_agent1, agent2, prop)
believe(-agent2, want(_agent1, believe(-agent2, -prop)))
know(-agent2, -prop)

Discourse Plan-C3: {-agenti tells -prop to .ageni2}

Action:
AppCond:

Body:

Effecta:
Goal:

Tell(-agentl, agent2, -prop)

believe(.agent1, -prop)

sbelieve(agenti, believe(_agent2, believe{_agent1, -prop)))
Surface-Inform( agent1, agent2, prop)
Make-Statement-Understood(_agent1, -agent2, _prop)
told-about(_agent2, -prop)

believe(agent2, believe(agent1, -prop))

Figure 1: Sample Plans from the Plan Library

49
in turn, may contribute to the domain actions at
the highest level (see Figure 3). The planning agent
is the agent of all actions at the domain level, since
the plan being constructed is for his subsequent ex-
ecution. Since we are assuming a cooperative di-
alogue in which the two participants are working
together to construct a domain plan, both partic-
ipants are joint agents of actions at the problem-
solving level. Both participants make utterances
and thus either participant may be the agent of an
action at the discourse level.

For example, a DM derived from two ut-
terances is shown in Figure 3; its construction is
described in Section 3.3. The DM in Figure 3 in-
dicates that the inform and the request were both
part of a plan for asking for information; the inform
provided background data enabling the information
request to be accepted by the hearer. Furthermore,
the actions at the discourse level were pursued in or-
der to perform a Build-Plan action at the problem-
solving level, and this problem-solving action is be-
ing performed in order to eventually perform the
domain action of getting a math minor. The cur-
rent focus of attention on each level is marked with
an asterisk.

3.3 Building the Dialogue Model

Our process model uses plan inference
rules[AP80, Car87], constraint satisfaction[LA87},
focusing heuristics[Car87], and features of the new
utterance to identify the relationship between the
utterance and the existing dialogue model. The
plan inference rules take as input a hypothesized
action A; and suggest other actions (either at the
same level in the DM or at the immediately higher
level) that might be the agent’s motivation for Aj.

The focusing heuristics order according to
coherence the ways in which the DM might be ex-
panded on each of the three levels to incorporate
the actions motivating a new utterance. Our focus-
ing heuristics at the discourse level are:

1. Expand the plan for an ancestor of the cur-
rently focused action in the existing DM so
that it includes the new utterance, preferring
to expand ancestors closest to the currently fo-
cused action. This accounts for new utterances
that continue discourse acts already in the DM.

2. Enter a new discourse action whose plan can
be expanded to include both the existing dis-
course level of the DM and the new utterance.
This accounts for situations in which actions
at the discourse level of the previous DM are
part of a plan for another discourse act that
had not yet been conveyed.

3. Begin a new tree structure at the discourse
level. This accounts for initiation of new dis-
course plans unrelated to those already in the
DM.

The focusing heuristics, however, are not

50

identical for all three levels. Although it is not pos-
sible to expand the plan for the focused action on
the discourse level since it will always be a surface
speech act, continuing the plan for the currently
focused action or expanding it to include a new
action are the most coherent expectations on the
problem-solving and domain levels. This is because
the agents are most expected to continue with the
problem-solving and domain plans on which their
attention is currently centered. In addition, since
actions at the discourse and problem-solving lev-
els are currently being executed, they cannot be
returned to (although a similar action can be initi-
ated anew and entered into the model). However,
since actions at the domain level are part of a plan
that is being constructed for future execution, a
domain subplan already completely developed may
be returned to for revision. Although such a shift
in attention back to a previously considered sub-
plan is not one of the strongest expectations, it is
still possible at the domain level. Furthermore, new
and unrelated discourse plans will often be pursued
during the course of a conversation whereas it is un-
likely that several different domain plans (each rep-
resenting a topic shift) will be investigated. Thus,
on the domain level, a return to a previously con-
sidered domain subplan is preferred over a shift to
a new domain plan that is unrelated to any already
in the DM.

In addition to different focusing heuristics
and different agents at each level, our tripartite
model enables us to capture different rules regard-
ing plan retention. A continually growing dialogue
structure does not seem to reflect the information
retained by humans. We contend that the domain
plan that is incrementally fleshed out and built at
the highest level should be maintained through-
out the dialogue, since it provides knowledge about
the agent’s intended domain actions that will be
useful in providing cooperative advice. However,
problem-solving and discourse actions need not be
retained indefinitely. If a problem-solving or dis-
course action has not yet completed execution, then
its immediate children should be retained in the
DM, since they indicate what has been done as part
of performing that as yet uncompleted action; its
other descendants can be discarded since the par-
ent actions that motivated them are finished. (For
illustration purposes, all actions have been retained
in Figure 3.

We have expanded on Litman and Allen’s
notion of constraint satisfaction([LA87] and Allen
and Perrault’s use of beliefs[AP80]. Our applica-
bility conditions contain beliefs by the agent of the
plan, and our recognition algorithm requires that
the system be able to plausibly ascribe these beliefs
in recognizing the plan. The algorithm is given the
semantic representation of an utterance. Then plan
inference rules are used to infer actions that might
motivate the utterance; the belief ascription process
during constraint satisfaction determines whether
it is reasonable to ascribe the requisite beliefs to
the agent of the action and, if not, the inference
is rejected. The focusing heuristics allow expecta-
tions derived from the existing dialogue context to
guide the recognition process by preferring those
inferences that can eventually lead to the most ex-
pected expansions of the existing dialogue model.

In [Car89] we claimed that a cooperative
participant must explicitly or implicitly accept a
response or pursue discourse goals directed toward
being able to accept the response. Thus our model
treats failure to initiate a negotiation dialogue as
implicit acceptance of the proposition conveyed by
the response. Consider, for example, the following
dialogue:

Si: Who is teaching C5960 next semester?
$2: Dr. Baker.
S1: What time does it meet?

Since S1’s second utterance cannot be interpreted
as initiating a negotiation dialogue, $1 has implic-
itly accepted the proposition that Dr. Baker is
teaching CS360 next semester as true. This no-
tion of implicit acceptance is similar to a restricted
form of Perrault’s default reasoning about the ef-
fects of an inform act[{Per90] and is explained fur-
ther in [Lam9]]}.

3.4 An Example

As an example of how our process model
assimilates utterances and can incrementally rec-
ognize a discourse action that cannot be recognized
from a single utterance, consider the following:

$1: (a) I want a math minor.

(b) What should I do?

A few of the plans needed to handle this example
are shown in Figure 1; these plans assume a co-
operative dialogue. From the surface inform, plan
inference rules suggest that S1 is executing a Teil
action and that this Tell is part of an Inform ac-
tion (the applicability conditions for both actions
can be plausibly ascribed to $1) and these are en-
tered into the discourse level of the DM. No fur-
ther inferences on this level are possible since the
Inform can be part of several discourse plans and
there is no existing dialogue context that suggests
which of these $1 might be pursuing. The system
infers that S1 wants the goal of the Inform action,
namely know(S2, want(S1, Get-Minor(S1, Math))).
Since this proposition is a precondition for building
a plan for getting a math minor, the system infers
that 51 wants Build-Plan(S1, $2, Get-Minor(S1,
math)) and this Build-Plan action is entered into
the problem-solving level of the DM. From this, the
system infers that S1 wants the goal of that action;
since this result is the precondition for getting a
math minor, the system infers that S1 wants to get
a math minor and this domain action is entered into
the domain level of the DM. The resulting discourse
model, with links between the actions at different
levels and the current focus of attention on each
level marked with an asterisk, is shown in Figure 2.

The semantic representation of (b) is

51

Domain Level
pc tre sweet sen ee

1 . '
' Get-Minor(S1, Math ‘
Cae wwweew eG nae een ass I

enable-arc

Problem-solving Level
=

pt we eee deere eee eee

  

a
a * [Build-Plan(S1, 32, Get-Mimor(S1, Meth
Reem enews wena ween a ot

eneble-arc

 

 

 

 

 

 

Discourse Level

ee ee

e

' [__ mtorm(S1, S2, want(S1, Get-Minor(St, Math))) |g

a anbaction-arc 5

1

t ‘Tell(S1, 83, want(S1, Get-Minor(S1, Math 1

4 subsctionearc '
1

1 aT Surface-Intorm(Si, S23, want(S1, Get-Minor(S1, Math))) | a

' a

Bawa nnn newennnaneneceaoananel

Figure 2: Dialogue Model from the first utterance

Surface-Request(S1, $2, Informref(S2, $1
-action1, need-do(Si, -action1, -action2)))

From this utterance we can infer that $1 is per-
forming a Request and thus may be performing an
Ask-Ref action (since Request is part of the body
of the plan for Ask-Ref) and that S1 may thus be
performing an Obtain-Info-Ref action (since Ask-
Ref is part of the body of the plan for Obtain-Info-
Ref) and that $1 wants the goal of the Obtain-Info-
Ref action (namely, that $1 know the subactions
that he needs to do in order to perform -action2),
which is in turn a precondition for building a plan.
This produces the inference that $1 wants Build-
Plan(S1, S2, -action2) which is an action at the
problem-solving level.

The focusing heuristics suggest that the
most coherent expectation at the discourse level is
that $1’s discourse level actions are part of a plan
for performing the Tell action that is the parent
of the action that was previously marked as the
current focus of attention in the discourse model.
However, no line of inference from the second ut-
terance represents an expansion of this plan. (This
means that the proposition was understood without
any clarification.5) Similarly, no expansion of the
plan for the Inform action (the other ancestor of the
focus of attention in the existing DM) succeeds in
linking the new utterance to the DM. (This means
that the communicated proposition was accepted
without any squaring away of beliefs[Jos82].)

Since the first focusing heuristic was unsuc-
cessful in finding a relationship between the new
utterance and the existing dialogue model, the sec-

5 We are assuming that the hearer has an opportunity to
intervene after an utterance. This is a simplification and
must eventually be removed to capture a hearer’s saving his
requests for clarification and negotiation of beliefs until the
end of the speaker’s complete turn.
preter ee ecae

° [Ger-minor(ss. Math) ]

Rew oun noe
enable-arc

weenmewre eee es
enable-arc
enable-arc

t p-[Buila-Plan(S1, $3, Get-Minor(S1, Math
L

_ ee

 

per enas ere nese neem ene eee

Domain Level
anew

Problem-solving Level

weeanw

Discourse Level
aeereon

 

s

subaction-arc

2ed-do(S1

ctionl, Get-Minor(St, Math

 

aubaction-arc

Aak-Ret(S1, 82, action, need-do(S1, -action1, Get-Minor(S1, Math)))

 

subaction-arc 4

[Make -Question-Acceptable(S1, 83, need-do(Si, -action1, Get-Minor(S1, Math))) J

 

 

subection-arc

 

 

wee wee ee wee ewe gy

 

 

 

 

 

Give-Background(S?, 32, want(Si, Get-Minor(S1, Math}),
need-do(S1, -actionl, Get-Minor(S1, Math)))
subaction-arc A
———L———f Inform(S1, S2, want(S1, Get-Minor(S1, Math))) {
subaction-are
[-ren(si, 82, want(Si, Get-Minor(S1, Math)))___|

Request(S1,
need-doi

Informref(SJ, $1, -action1,

waction!, Giet-Minor(S1, Math

sa,
St

 

 

aubaction-arc

subaction-arc

 

| Surface-Inform(S1, 52, want(S1, Get-Minor(S1, Math))) |

ee ee ee ee ee

 

Surface-Request(S1, 82, Informret(S2, S1, -action1, 1

 

|

need-do(S1, action1, Get-Minor($1, Math))) '

ewe wee Re eee Pe Rw OR TE ES ee wee eee wee wee ee ee ee eee eed

Figure 3: Dialogue Model derived from two utterances

ond focusing heuristic is tried. It suggests that the
new utterance and the actions at the discourse level
in the existing DM might both be part of an ex-
panded plan for some other discourse action. The
inferences described above lead from (b) to the dis-
course action Ask-Ref whose plan can be expanded
as shown in Figure 3 to include, as background for
the Ask-Ref, the Inform and the Tell actions that
were entered into the DM from (a).® The focusing
heuristics suggest that the most coherent continu-
ation at the problem-solving level is that the new
utterance is continuing the Build- Plan that was pre-
viously marked as the current focus of attention at
that level. This is possible by instantiating action2
with Get-minor(S1, math). Thus the DM is ex-
panded as shown in Figure 3 with the new focus
of attention on each level marked with an asterisk.
Note that S1’s overall goal of obtaining information
was not conveyed by (a) alone; consequently, only
after both utterances were coherently related could
it be determined that (a) was part of an overall
discourse plan to obtain information and that (a)
was intended to provide background data for the
request being made in (b).”

6Note that the actions in the body of Ask-Ref are not
ordered; an agent can provide clarification and background
information before or after asking a question.

7An inform action could also be used for other pur-
poses, including justifying a question and merely conveying
information.

52

Further queries would lead to more elaborate
tree structures on the problem-solving and domain
levels. For example, suppose that S1 is told that
Math 210 is a required course for a math minor.
Then a subsequent query such as Who is teach-
ing Math 210 next semester? would be performing
a discourse act of obtaining information in order
to perform a problem-solving action of instantiat-
ing a parameter in a Learn-Material domain action.
Since learning the material from one of the teach-
ers of a course is part of a domain plan for taking a
course and since instantiating the parameters in ac-
tions in the body of domain plans is part of building
the domain plan, further inferences would indicate
that this Instantzate- Vars problem-solving action is
being executed in order to perform the problem-
solving action of building a plan for the domain
action of taking Math 210 in order to build a plan
to get a math minor. Consequently, the domain
and problem-solving levels would be expanded so
that each contained several plans, with appropriate
links between the levels.

4 Current and Future Work

We are currently examining the applications
that this model has in modeling negotiation dia-
logues and discourse acts such as convince, warn,
and express surprise. To extend our notion of im-
plicit acceptance of a proposition to negotiation di-
alogues, we are exploring treating a discourse plan
as having successfully achieved its goal if it is plau-
sible that all of its subacts have achieved their goals
and all of its applicability conditions (except those
negated by the goal) are still true after the subacts
have been executed.

Especially in negotiation dialogues, a system
must account for the fact that a user may change
his mind during a conversation. But often people
only slightly modify their beliefs. For example, the
system might inform the user of some proposition
about which the user previously held no beliefs. In
that case, if the user has no reason to disbelieve the
proposition, the user may adopt that proposition as
one of his own beliefs. However, if the user disbe-
lieved the proposition before the system performed
the inform, then the user might change from disbe-
lief to neither belief nor disbelief; a robust. model of
understanding must be able to handle a response
that expresses doubt or even disbelief at a previous
utterance, especially in modeling arguments and
negotiation dialogues. Thus, a system should be
able to (1) represent levels of belief, (2) recognize
how a speaker’s utterance conveys these different
levels of belief, (3) use these levels of belief in recog-
nizing discourse plans, and (4) use previous context
and a user’s responses to model changing beliefs.

We are investigating the use of a multi-level
belief model to represent the strength of an agent’s
beliefs and are studying how the form of an utter-
ance and certain clue words contribute to conveying
these beliefs. Consider, for example, the following
two utterances:

(1) Is Dr. Smith teaching C5310?
(2) Isn't Dr. Smith teaching C5310?

A simple yes-no question as in utterance (1) sug-
gests only that the speaker doesn’t know whether
Dr. Smith teaches CS310 whereas the form of the
question in utterance () suggests that the speaker
has a relatively strong belief that Dr. Smith teaches
C5310 but is uncertain of this. These beliefs con-
veyed by the surface speech act must be taken into
account during the plan recognition process. Thus
our plan recognition algorithm will first use the ef-
fects of the surface speech act to suggest augmen-
tations to the belief model. These augmentations
will then be taken into account in deciding whether
requisite beliefs for potential discourse acts can be
plausibly ascribed to the speaker and will enable us
to identify such discourse actions as expressing sur-
prise. [Lam91] further discusses the use of a multi-
level belief model and its contribution in modeling
dialogue.

5 Related Work

Ramshaw[Ram91] has developed a model of
discourse that contains a domain execution level,
an exploration level, and a discourse level. In his
model, discourse plans can refer either to the explo-
ration level (corresponding to queries about possi-
ble ways of achieving a goal) or to the domain exe-

53

cution level (corresponding to queries after commit-
ment has been made to achieve a goal in a particular
way). In our tripartite model, discourse, problem-
solving, and domain plans form a hierarchy with
links between adjacent levels. Whereas Ramshaw’s
exploration level captures the consideration of al-
ternative plans, our intermediate level captures the
notion of problem-solving and plan-construction,
whether or not there has been a commitment to
a particular way of achieving a domain goal. Thus
a query such as To whom do I make out the check?
would be recognized as a query against the domain
execution level in Ramshaw’s model (since it is a
query made after commitment to a plan such as
opening a passbook savings account[Ram91}), but
our model would treat it as a discourse plan that
is executed to further the problem-solving plan of
instantiating a parameter in an action in a domain
plan — i.e., our model would view the agent as ask-
ing a question in order to further the construction
of his partially constructed domain plan.

Our tripartite model offers several advan-
tages. Ramshaw’s model assumes that the top-level
domain plan is given at the outset of the dialogue
and then his model expands that plan to accom-
modate user queries. Our model, on the other
hand, builds the DM incrementally at each level
as the dialogue progresses; it therefore can han-
dle bottom-up dialogues[Car87] in which the user’s
overall top-level goal is not explicitly known at the
outset and can recognize discourse actions that can-
not be identified from a single utterance. In addi-
tion, our domain, problem-solving, and discourse
plans are all recognized incrementally using basi-
cally the same plan recognition algorithm on each
level[Wil81]. Consequently, we foresee being able
to extend our model to include additional pairs of
problem-solving and discourse levels whose domain
level contains an existing problem-solving or dis-
course plan; this will enable us to handle utter-
ances such as What should we work on next? (query
trying to further construction of a problem-solving
plan) and Do you have information about ...?
(query trying to further construction of a discourse
plan to obtain information).

Ramshaw’s plan exploration strategies, his
differentiation between exploration and commit-
ment, and his heuristics for recognizing adoption of
a plan are very important. While our work has not
yet addressed these issues, we believe that they are
consistent with our model and are best addressed at
our problem-solving level by adding new problem-
solving metaplans. Such an incorporation will have
several advantages, including the ability to handle
utterances such as

If I decide to get a BA degree, then I'll take
French to meet the foreign language requirement.

In the above case, the speaker is still exploring a
plan for getting a BA degree, but has committed
to taking French to satisfy the foreign language re-
quirement should the plan for the BA degree be
adopted. It does not appear that Ramshaw’s model
can handle such contingent commitment. This en-
richment of our problem-solving level may necessi-
tate changes to our focusing heuristics.

6 Conclusions

We have presented a tripartite model of dia-
logue that distinguishes between domain, problem-
solving, and discourse or communicative actions.
By modeling each of these three kinds of actions
as separate tree structures, with links between the
actions on adjacent levels, our process mode] en-
ables the incremental recognition of discourse ac-
tions that cannot be identified from a single ut-
terance alone. However, it is still able to cap-
ture the relationship between discourse, problem-
solving, and domain actions. In addition, it pro-
vides a more finely differentiated representation of
user intentions than previous models, allows the nu-
ances of different kinds of processing (such as dif-
ferent focusing expectations and information reten-
tion) to be captured at each level, and accounts for
implicit acceptance of a communicated proposition.
Our current work involves using this model to han-
dle negotiation dialogues in which a hearer does not
automatically accept as valid the proposition com-
municated by an inform action.

References

{[AP80] James F. Alen and C. Raymond Perrault.
Analyzing intention in utterances. Artifi-
cial Intelligence, 15:143-178, 1980.

Sandra Carberry. Pragmatic modeling:
Toward a robust natural language inter-
face. Computational Intelligence, 3:117-
186, 1987.

[Car87]

[Car89] Sandra Carberry. A pragmatics-based ap-
proach to ellipsis resolution. Computa-

tional Linguistics, 15(2):75-96, 1989.

Joseph E. Grimes. The Thread of Dis-
course. Mouton, 1975.

[Gri75]

[GS86] Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner. At-
tention, intention, and the structure of
discourse. Computational Linguistics,

12(3):175~204, 1986.

Eduard H. Hovy. Planning coherent
multisentential text. Proceedings of the
26th Annual Meeting of the Association

for Computational Linguistics, pages 163-
169, 1988.

Aravind K. Joshi. Mutual beliefs in
question-answer systems. In N. Smith, ed-
itor, Mutual Beliefs, pages 181-197, New
York, 1982. Academic Press.

[Hov88]

{Jos82]

[LA87] Diane Litman and James Allen. A plan
recognition mode] for subdialogues in con-
versation. Cognitive Science, 11:163-200,

1987.

54

[Lam91]

[MP90]

(MT83}

[PA80]

[Per90]

[Pol86a]

[Pol86b]

[Ram89]

[Ram91}

[Rei78]

[vBC86]

{Wil81]

Lynn Lambert. Modifying beliefs in a
plan-based discourse model. In Proceed-
ings of the 29th Annual Meeting of the
ACL, Berkeley, CA, June 1991.

Johanna Moore and Cecile Paris. Plan-
ning text for advisory dialogues. In Pro-
ceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting of the
Assoctation for Computational Linguis-
tice pages 203-211, Vancouver, Canada,

William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thomp-
son. Relational propositions in dis-
course. Technical Report ISI/RR-83-115,
ISI/USC, November 1983.

Raymond Perrault and James Allen. A
plan-based analysis of indirect speech
acts. American Journal of Computational
Linguistics, 6(3-4):167-182, 1980.

Raymond Perrault. An application of de-
fault logic to speech act theory. In Philip
Cohen, Jerry Morgan, and Martha Pol-
lack, editors, Intentions in Communica-
tion, pages 161-185. MIT Press, Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, 1990.

Livia Polanyi. The linguistics discourse
model: Towards a formal theory of dis-
course structure. Technical Report 6409,

Bolt Beranek and Newman Laboratories
Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1986.

Martha Pollack. Inferring Domain Plans
in Question-Answering. PhD thesis,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, 1986.

Lance A. Ramshaw. Pragmatic Knowl-
edge for Resolving Ill-Formedness. PhD
thesis, University of Delaware, Newark,
Delaware, June 1989.

Lance A. Ramshaw. A three-level model
for plan exploration. In Proceedings of the
29th Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, Berkeley,
California, 1991.

Rachel Reichman. Conversational co-
herency. Cognitive Science, 2:283-327,
78.

Peter van Beek and Robin Cohen. To-
wards user specific explanations from ex-
pert systems. In Proceedings of the Sixth
Canadian Conference on Artificial Intellt-
gence, pages 194-198, Montreal, Canada,

Robert Wilensky. Meta-planning: Repre-
senting and using knowledge about plan-
ning in problem solving and natural lan-
uage understanding. Cognitive Science,
197-233, 1981.
