Semantic Web 0 (0) 1
IOS Press

A Review of Argumentation for the Social

Semantic Web

Editor(s): Harith Alani, The Open University, UK

Solicited review(s): Fouad Zablith, American University of Beirut, Lebanon; Simon Buckingham Shum, The Open University, UK; Iyad

Rahwan, Masdar Institute, Abu Dhabi
Open review(s):

Jodi Schneider*, Tudor Groza®, and
Alexandre Passant *

* Digital Enterprise Research Institute, National
University of Ireland, Galway,
Jirstname.lastname @ deri.org

» School of ITEE, The University of Queensland,
Australia, tudor.groza @ uq.edu.au

Abstract. Argumentation represents the study of views and
opinions that humans express with the goal of reaching a
conclusion through logical reasoning. Since the 1950’s, sev-
eral models have been proposed to capture the essence of in-
formal argumentation in different settings. With the emer-
gence of the Web, and then the Semantic Web, this model-
ing shifted towards ontologies, while from the development
perspective, we witnessed an important increase in Web 2.0
human-centered collaborative deliberation tools. Through a
review of more than 150 scholarly papers, this article pro-
vides a comprehensive and comparative overview of ap-
proaches to modeling argumentation for the Social Seman-
tic Web. We start from theoretical foundational models and
investigate how they have influenced Social Web tools. We
also look into Semantic Web argumentation models. Finally
we end with Social Web tools for argumentation, including
online applications combining Web 2.0 and Semantic Web
technologies, following the path to a global World Wide Ar-
gument Web.

Keywords: Argumentation, Semantic Web, Social Web, Se-
mantic Web, Ontologies

1. Introduction

In recent years, the problem of representing large-
scale argumentation on the Web has attracted the at-

tention of scholars from fields such as artificial in-
telligence [137], communication theory [5], business
management [88] and e-government [107]. At the
same time, argumentation researchers began establish-
ing the foundations for a World Wide Argument Web
(WWAW) as “a large-scale Web of interconnected ar-
guments posted by individuals to express their opin-
ions in a structured manner” [138].

Arguments on the Web can be used in decision-
making contexts. Decision-making often requires dis-
cussion not just of agreement and disagreement, but
also the principles, reasons, and explanations driving
the choices between particular options. Furthermore,
arguments expressed online for one audience may be
of interest to other (sometimes far-flung) audiences.
It can be difficult to re-find the crucial turning points
of an argumentative discussion, even one in which we
have participated. Yet on the Web, we cannot subscribe
to arguments or issues, nor are there tools that support
searching for arguments. Nor can we summarize the
rationale behind a group’s decision, even when the dis-
cussion took place entirely in public venues such as
mailing lists, blogs, IRC channels, and Web forums.

By providing common languages and principles to
model and query information on the Web (such as
RDF [90], RDFS [1], OWL [3], SPARQL [2], Linked
Data principles [18], etc.), the Semantic Web [20] is
an appropriate means to represent arguments and ar-
gumentation uniformly on the Web, and to enable, for
instance, browsing distributed argumentation patterns
that appear in various places on the Web. Indeed, re-
searchers have shown that the Semantic Web can be
used for visualization and comparison in decision ra-
tionale [102].

In this context, this paper discusses research in mod-
eling argumentation as it relates to the Social Seman-

1570-0844/0-1900/$27.50 ©) 0 — IOS Press and the authors. All rights reserved
2 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

tic Web [10,70,27], focusing on foundational models
of argumentation, their applications in the Social Web,
and on ontologies (as in computer science [69]).

In particular, our purpose is to investigate ontologies
and tools which may be useful for argumentation on
the Social Semantic Web, a field where the aforemen-
tioned Semantic Web technologies support Social Web
[123] applications, while at the same time Social Web
paradigms are used to generate Semantic Web data col-
laboratively and at large scale. This convergence aims
at providing new and improved ways to integrate and
discover data, following the vision of Social Machines
provided by Berners-Lee [19], both on the Web and
in the enterprise [127]. In the context of argumenta-
tion, this could help to aggregate arguments from var-
ious websites — for instance a discussion starting on
Twitter and followed up on a mailing list, later frozen
on a wiki once consensus is reached — thus providing
new means to follow argumentative discussions on the
Web. This would enable an argument-centric view of
the Web.

Moreover, the Social Web does not yet have widely-
used argumentative ontologies, though this problem
has been noted [67], along with the need for federation
infrastructures [125]. Thus, in order to identify how
different argumentation models and tools can be used
for the Social Semantic Web, this paper offers a review
of more than 150 research papers on the topic, from
1945 to 2011, from which we compare:

— 14 theoretical models of argumentation

— 14 Semantic Web models for argumentation (i.e.
ontologies)

— 37 tools for representing argumentation on the
Web.

As the focus is on human-centered argumentation
[87], with the goal of improving access and providing
overviews and visualizations, this article will briefly
mention, but not analyze, the agent-based argumenta-
tion domain!

Following the introduction, we provide brief overviews

of argumentation (Section 2.1) and of the Social Web
(Section 2.2), then discuss requirements for support-
ing argumentation on the Social Semantic Web (Sec-
tion 3). We next present theoretical models of argu-

 

'See for instance the Argumentation in Multi-Agent Systems
(ArgMAS) Workshop series, in its ninth year in 2012. In particular,
in the social context, Heras has presented argumentation work from
a social perspective using case-based reasoning and ontologies e.g.
the ArgCBROntology ?. [76,73].

mentation (Section 4) from a variety of fields, compare
them (Section 5), and present applications of these the-
oretical models (Section 6). Subsequently we present
(Section 7) and compare (Section 8) Semantic Web
models of argumentation. Then we move on to review-
ing tools: in Section 9 we highlight thirteen notewor-
thy features of Social Web argumentation tools, based
on a comprehensive analysis of thirty-seven relevant
tools (see the Appendix for full details). Finally we
conclude the paper in Section 10.

2. Background
2.1. Argumentation

Argumentation theory is the study of agreement,
disagreement, and of the dialogues and writing through
which we convince ourselves and others of our points
of view [65]. Informal argumentation occurs through-
out conversations, online and offline, often in conjunc-
tion with persuasion or with joint decision-making.
Even logically sound decisions may involve choices
based on values and preference judgements: people
may agree on the facts of a situation yet disagree on
the preferred outcome or decision to be taken. That is
vitally different from disagreeing on the facts of a sit-
uation (in which case more information is called for).

We are concerned with argumentative discussions,
which we take to be online, mainly textual messages
and discussions, in which subjective perspectives or
differences of opinion are important and relevant.
Groups may use online conversations and social media
to coordinate and support decision-making; such argu-
mentative discussions can be found in many online dis-
cussion fora such as standardization bodies’ listservs,
Wikipedia editors’ wiki pages, and open source com-
munities’ IRC channels, bug reports, and listservs. In-
dividuals may also draw on online conversations and
social media in order to form personal opinions and
clarify their own preferences, based on sensemaking
and analysis of others’ experiences; such argumenta-
tive discussions can be found, for instance, on product
reviews websites, political blogs, in patient advocacy
and support group discussions, and in brief anecdotes
shared via microblogs.

There are a variety of common argument structures
[134]. A single premise may directly support a conclu-
sion (as in (i) of Figure 1 on the facing page), but more
commonly, they are combined to come to a conclusion.
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 3

” a 77 B|

cinghe nked one sem divergent

Fig. 1. Common argument patterns, from [134].

Premises and conclusions may also be chained (as in
(iv) of Figure 1 on the next page).

Further, as we will see in this review, there are differ-
ent ways of thinking about and modeling arguments.
Argumentation theorists have variously modeled indi-
vidual argument structure (e.g. Toulmin, discussed in
Section 4.1, page 4), argument chaining (e.g. Arau-
caria* [150,142,144]), and groups of arguments (e.g.
Dung, discussed in Section 4.5, page 6). There is a sig-
nificant difference between what is possible to analyze
when looking at these different levels of argumenta-
tion: they show micro- and macro- structures which
are not commensurate, so it is important to have clarity
about what kind of analysis suits a situation.

We believe that for social media, the basic units
of argumentation are claims and justifications. By
a claim, we mean an assertion of fact or opinion’.
Justifications—reasons for believing the claim—are of-
ten elicited when a claim is questioned. Some justifi-
cations take the form of explanations; opinions may be
elaborated upon and explained even when no disagree-
ment is expected.

2.2. Social Semantic Web

The interaction of users around the Web has been
shifting from individual siloed Web systems, towards
more open and interlinked social applications>. In dis-
cussion environments, such interlinkage is particu-
larly important: the same community may discuss top-
ics across multiple sites, and use multiple types of
sites, such as blogs and microblogs, discussion forums,
and wikis. Crosslinking the discussions of these sys-
tems is a first step, which has been taken by SIOC
— Semantically-Interlinked Online Communities [26].

 

Shttp://araucaria.computing.dundee.ac.uk/

44 propositional commitment, in Walton and Krabbe’s terminol-
ogy [198]

Shttp://oreilly.com/web2/archive/
what-is-web-20.html

Yet the internal structure of these discussions — such
as whether the participants agree or disagree, are con-
tributing diverse ideas, or debating in circles — is still
not represented in SIOC. Capturing such underlying
arguments would be valuable, and research is begin-
ning to address this for instance by identifying argu-
ment schemes used in Amazon reviews [75,208] and
by modeling the speech acts in Twitter conversations
[148]. Yet infrastructure for argumentation on the So-
cial Semantic Web is still needed.

3. Requirements

What are the requirements for supporting argu-
mentation on the Social Semantic Web? Arguments
must be identified, resolved, represented and stored,
queried, and presented to users. Identification involves
mining arguments, in the form of claims, from text
(Section 6.12.2, page 17), eliciting them from users,
or some combination of these approaches. Resolving
involves indicating the relationships between the in-
dividual claims that make up arguments: are they on
the same topic? Do they agree or disagree? Represent-
ing and Storing arguments requires a suitable ontol-
ogy to represent claims and the relationships between
them. This supports Querying and enables Presenting
the Social Semantic Argument Web, i.e. using these
ontologies to facilitate access to conversations, sum-
marizing the contentious and agreed-upon points of a
discussion.

The representations chosen are key to this process,
since they determine what stored information can be
retrieved, and what information needs to be mined and
resolved. Existing representations will need to be aug-
mented, since the information we can retrieve depends
on what information we store. The desired ontologies
should encompass not only the structural features of
posts (such as the date and author of a post) and of
conversations (such as the reply structure of multi-
ple posts), but also additional argumentative features,
for instance to mark claims and to indicate the rela-
tionships between them. The simplest relationships for
representing argumentation indicate whether pairs of
claims support or challenge each other. Yet in gen-
eral, these relationships do not just pertain to pairs; in
general, entire groups of argumentative messages may
need to be considered together. The meaning of a dia-
logue may be lost by chunking messages and treating
them individually, out of the original context.
4 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

Even simple scenarios may give rise to complex
argumentation involving chains of statements (e.g.
[178]), and context-dependent relationships in which
the conclusion of one argument is premise of another
[209]: this makes the graph structures of the Seman-
tic Web a natural fit. Wyner et al. suggest that be-
sides agreement and disagreement, the semantic types
of arguments should at least include introduction of
a premise or exception, refinement, and pronomial
anaphora and call for a modular architecture “where
different relationships or debate components may be
added systematically” [209].

3.1. Example Applications & Requirements

We envision two main approaches to studying argu-
mentation on the Social Semantic Web:

1. Focusing on the real-time, dialogical nature of
the Social Web, i.e. by soliciting arguments from
humans through conversation and real-time ex-
change.

2. Focusing on the Social Web as a source of ar-
tifacts, ie. by using existing natural language
conversations and reconfiguring the traces and
archives of these conversations.

Examples of the first case would be a chatbot or
an interactive webform; these could help populate a
knowledge base or enable argumentative interaction
between humans and intelligent agents. Examples of
the second case would be discussion summaries or in-
teractive conversation browsers; a discussion summary
could highlight the agreement and disagreement about
a topic expressed in a number of Social Web sources,
or a review browser could enable faceted navigation
through reviews based on the factors they mention, and
the polarity and strength of the reviewer’s perspective
on each such factor.

Formal semantics will be needed in both cases,
but for different functions. In the first case, formal
semantics translate from natural language to agent-
appropriate vocabularies, potentially enabling reason-
ing over human input. Argumentation has long been
used for planning between agents: agent-based ap-
proaches to the Semantic Web are common [179], and
there has been some work in mediating between hu-
mans and agents [169,202]. In the second case, the se-
mantics will mainly be useful for presenting humans
with visualizations and overviews, therefore the ease
of mining and presenting representations, and the suit-
ability for human understanding, should be preferred.

Another factor is how—by what process and agent—
arguments are translated into the formal semantics.
This may be the responsibility of a human or machine.
If argumentation is annotated by humans-either the
person posting a comment or other individuals—they
will need sufficient understanding of the model as well
as a suitable incentive or motivation for annotating.
Meanwhile, machine-based (algorithmic) annotation is
limited by our current understanding of informal ar-
gumentation, and by the multilayered meaning of con-
versations. Further, argumentation can be treated as
static (for completed discussions) or dynamic (for on-
going conversations). If participants annotate the dis-
cussion, the requirement to annotate can distract from
the discussion; yet non-participants and machines may
be limited by lack of awareness of the context and of
subtle language cues.

Models supporting human navigation (e.g. to sup-
port our second example above) should make psycho-
logical sense; this is not a factor for internal represen-
tations for machines. In either case, to ensure feasibil-
ity (for either human or algorithmic entry), argumenta-
tion classifications need to be clearcut. Thus, the gran-
ularity of the model must be limited.

4. Theoretical Models of Argumentation

This section discusses fourteen theoretical models.
Seven are designed for capturing argument structure:
Toulmin [180], Issue-Based Information Systems [96],
Walton’s argumentation schemes and critical ques-
tions [197], Walton and Krabbe’s dialogue types [198],
Dung’s Argumentation Frameworks [51], Value-based
Argumentation Frameworks [15], and Factor Analysis
and Dimension Analysis [16]. An additional seven lin-
guistic approaches deal with issues relevant to argu-
ment structure or detection: Speech Act Theory [158],
Language/Action Perspective [205], Pragma-dialectic
[186], Metadiscourse and Structural Elements of Text
[79], Rhetorical Structure Theory [110], Coherence
[91], and Cognitive Coherence Relations [152].

4.1. Toulmin

The study of informal argumentation originated
in philosophy in 1958 with Toulmin [180]. Toulmin
sought to find a common underlying basis for argu-
ments in every field of human activity. His model
applies, for instance, to legal, scientific, and infor-
mal conversational arguments. In Toulmin’s theory,
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 5

evidence and rules called Warrants support Claims.
Claims may also be qualified (i.e. with constraints or
to indicate uncertainty); Rebuttals may be used to ar-
gue against an argument. Toulmin’s argument pattern
is shown in Figure 2: Data is supported by Warrants
which have Backings, showing that a Claim holds with
Qualifiers regarding the situation, unless there is a Re-
buttal. Figure 3 shows Toulmin’s now-famous argu-
ment, presented according to this structure.

 

 

[QUALIFIER]
a “
DATA | | CLAIM
WARRANT | REBUT |

Fig. 2. An interpretation of Toulmin’s argument pattern, from [29].

Harry was born)
in Bermuda |

[ Harry isa

Sc sumably. os =
— +0, pre ie bly, | British subject

Since Unless
A man be Both his parents were
Bermuda aliens/ he has become a
generally be a naturalised American/ ..,
British su

 

 

  

t
pect

On account of

The following statutes
and other legal provisions:

Fig. 3. Toulmin’s example argument from page 105 of [180].

4.2. Issue-Based Information System (IBIS)

IBIS, Issue-Based Information System, is a problem-
solving structure first published in 1970 [96]. As the
name suggests, IBIS centers around controversial is-
sues which take the form of questions. Specialists from
different fields may use the same words with differ-
ent assumptions and intentions®, hampering commu-
nication. IBIS is especially intended to support com-
munity and political decision-making. In this scenario,
there may be three separate groups—the participants in
the discussion, the relevant experts, and the decision

 

6“Many central terms used are proper names for long stories spe-
cific of the particular situation, with their meaning depending very
sensitively on the context in which they are used." [96]

makers—each of whom need to communicate with each
other and who must also get information from existing
records and documentation.

IBIS, as originally designed, is a documentation sys-
tem, meant to organize discussion and allow subse-
quent understanding of the decision taken; this ex-
plains the use of “Information System” in its acronym.
The context of the discussion is a discourse about a
topic. Issues may bring up questions of fact and be
discussed in arguments. Hete, “Arguments are con-
structed in defense of or against the different positions
until the issue is settled by convincing the opponents
or decided by a formal decision procedure,” [96]. IBIS
also recognizes model problems, such as cost-benefit
models, that deal with whole classes of problems.

Several kinds of relationships exist between is-
sues: direct successor, generalization, relevant anal-
ogy, compatible, consistent, or inconsistent. The method
also distinguishes issue content, as factual, deonic
(“Shall X become the case?’”), explanatory, or instru-
mental (“Shall we take approach X to accomplish
Y?").

Originally implemented as a paper-based system,
IBIS influenced several ontologies and numerous tools
(see Section 6.2, page 12) as well as procedures such
as dialogue mapping [47].

4.3. Walton’s Argumentation Schemes and Critical
Questions

The Canadian philosopher Walton has written ex-
tensively on argumentation for more than thirty years
(e.g. [190,193,194]); a 2010 festschrift honoring his
contributions [143] shows how his work has influenced
and been applied to computer argumentation. Informal
argumentation is one of Walton’s specialties [195], and
in this section, we discuss two of his key theories, start-
ing with argumentation schemes.

According to Rahwan [134], while many taxonomies
of argumentation have been proposed [129,63,185,85],
Walton’s taxonomy [191] provides the point of depar-
ture for computational models of argumentation. In
his detailed classification from 1995 [191], Walton de-
scribes each scheme with a name, a conclusion, a set of
premises, and a set of critical questions. Critical ques-
tions address the points where this argument scheme
may break down, and suggest attacks against the argu-
ment. For example, the following six critical questions
6 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

are associated with the Argument from Expert Opinion
[62]’:

. How credible is £ as an expert source?

. Is F an expert in the field that A is in?

. Does £’s testimony imply A?

. Is E reliable?

. Is A consistent with the testimony of other ex-
perts?

6. Is A supported by evidence?

Walton’s 2008 book [197], coauthored with computa-
tional argumentation researchers, presents 65 general
argumentation schemes, presumably updating [191].

mM Bw N Ee

4.4. Walton and Krabbe’s Dialogue Types

Discussion types, first developed by Walton and
Krabbe [198], have also been influential. ®

Seven types of dialogue are shown in Figure 4 on
the next page. These types are Persuasion, Inquiry,
Discovery, Negotiation, Information-Seeking, Deliber-
ation, and Eristic. They are distinguished by the ini-
tial situation, the individual goals of the participants,
and the overall goal of the dialogue. For instance, an
information-seeking dialogue and an inquiry have sim-
ilar goals, but differ in the initial situation: one per-
son is believed to have the answer in an information-
seeking dialogue, while in an inquiry, no one has the
answer. Persuasion and deliberation are distinguished
by whose preferences are used: in a persuasion dia-
logue, the outcome depends on the preferences of the
individual to be persuaded, while in a deliberation, the
group preferences are used.

Understanding the goal of a conversation is impor-
tant for determining the outcome, and for determining
what conversational moves are relevant. We may be
able to access to pragmatics [92] of a conversation by
understanding its goals. This is also how we evaluate
a conversation: What was A trying to achieve? What
was B trying to achieve? Did they achieve it?

In our own view, these types of dialogue can
be classified based on whether knowledge plays a

 

7[62] attributes this to page 49, D. Walton, Appeal to Expert Opin-
ion, Penn State Press, University Park, 1997.

8 walton has revised this taxonomy several times. ‘Discovery’ was
not in several earlier formulations, such as [193](p. 183); it is moti-
vated by choosing the best hypothesis for testing. Debate and Peda-
gogical appeared in an earlier formulation [192] which provides de-
scriptions of the goals of each dialogue. Other scholars have also
suggested extensions and modifications, for instance Dunne et al.
have proposed adding examination dialogues [52].

large, middling, or minor role. Inquiry, Discovery,
and Information-seeking dialogues are almost entirely
knowledge-based, while knowledge plays only a mi-
nor role in Negotiation (aiming at a harmonious set-
tlement) and Eristic (quarrels, beneficial mainly for
venting emotions). Knowledge plays some role in the
remaining two types: in Persuasion and Deliberation,
opinion and belief also have a large role. Further com-
plexity arises because dialogue types may shift in an
actual discussion, and argument schemes may be em-
bedded in one another [196].

4.5. Dung’s Argumentation Frameworks

Dung provides a powerful graphical model of ar-
gumentation frameworks in [51], which has been
widely used in computational argumentation. Argu-
mentation frameworks are defined as sets of arguments
and attacks between them. Formally, an argumentation
framework is a pair AF = (AR, attacks) where AR
is a set of arguments, and attacks is a binary relation
on AR, i.e. attacks C AR x AR.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 5. Example of an argumentation framework

Then the questions of interest are to find maximal
sets of arguments that do not attack each other (these
are called conflict-free), and to find arguments that are
not defeated by a given set of arguments (these are
called acceptable). A conflict-free set of arguments is
then considered to be admissible if each argument is
acceptable with respect to the set.

Dung then finds maximal admissible sets, known as
preferred extensions. Also important are the grounded
extensions, which represent the least fixed point of the
function mapping an argumentation framework to the

 
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Type of Initial Situation Participant’s Goal Goal Of Dialogue
Dialogue
Persuasion Conflict of Opinions Persuade Other Party | Resolve or Clarify Issue
Inquiry Need to Have Proof Find and Verify | Prove (Disprove)
Evidence | Hypothesis
Discovery | Need to Find an Find and Defend a Choose Best Hypothesis
Explanation of Facts Suitable Hypothesis for Testing
Negotiation Conflict of Interests ~ Get What You Most Reasonable Settlement
Want | Both Can Live With
Information- Need Information - Acquire or Give | Exchan ge Information |
Seeking Information
Deliberation Dilemma or Practical, Co-ordinate Goals and Decide Best Available
. Choice Actions Course of Action
Eristic Personal Conflict Verbally Hit Out at Reveal Deeper Basis of |
Opponent Conflict

 

 

 

Fig. 4. Walton’s seven types of dialogue, from [196].

set of acceptable arguments of that framework. A sta-
ble extension is a conflict-free set of arguments that at-
tacks each argument that does not belong to the set.

A simple argumentation framework is shown in Fig-
ure 5. In this example, A and B attack each other; A
also attacks C; and D is not attacked. Thus A,D and
B,C,D are preferred extensions.

In Dung’s theory, there is a notion of ‘defend’ — to
defeat the attackers — but there is no direct notion of
‘support’. Arguments ‘support’ another one by not be-
ing defeated, and by not attacking, a given argument.

4.6. Value-based Argumentation Frameworks

Value-based Argumentation Frameworks [15], based
on Dung’s argumentation frameworks, address persua-
sion and preferences. It is not just differences about
the facts, or failures in logic that can cause reason-
able people to disagree: differences in values can also
be to blame. For instance: “Despite the fact that the
weather is beautiful, I choose to stay inside, because
I have something important to do". In practical rea-
soning, two people can come to different, consistently
logical opinions, based on a difference of values: “A
key element in persuasion is identifying the value con-
flict at the root of the disagreement so that preference
between values can explicitly inform the acceptance
or rejection of the competing arguments." The the-
ory of Value-based Argumentation Frameworks thus

draws from Perelman’s notion of audience [129]: ar-
guments are often addressed to particular audiences,
and persuasive arguments are those aligned with the
audience’s values and preferences. Value-based Argu-
mentation Frameworks provide a method for logically
calculating consistent approaches, distinguishing be-
tween the facts of a situation and community mem-
bers’ values.

4.7. Factor and Dimension Analysis

There is a large business market in legal information
retrieval, and one method for classifying and indexing
legal cases has been the key factors of a case, for in-
stance for the early legal argumentation system CATO
[7]. Factor analysis can be helpful in supporting com-
munity decision-making or in summarizing reviews.
Factors are simplifications that are either present or ab-
sent; when present, a factor “always strengthens the
case for the same disputant" [16].

Further development along the lines of CATO
yielded Ashley’s later system, HYPO [11], which uses
dimensions rather than factors. Dimensions “capture
the legal relevance of a cluster of facts to the merits
of a claim". Dimensions such as “Obligation to aid the
victim" or “Failure to heed traffic signs" contribute to
determinations of culpability, and have been recorded
in manually constructed databases [12]. Dimensions
8 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

can be present to a greater or lesser degree and it may
unclear which side they favor.

4.8. Speech Act Theory

Several approaches to conversation and argumenta-
tion have been derived from speech act theory. Searle’s
Speech Act Theory [158] describes five categories of
speech acts: assertives, directives, commissives, ex-
pressives, and declaratives. Speech acts are about the
force of a statement: what effect they seek to have on
the hearer or the world. Assertives (‘The sky is blue’)
assert that something is true. Directives (‘Clean your
room’) order, permit, or request something. Commis-
sives are vows or pledges (‘I swear to tell the truth’).
Expressives offer thanks or congratulations, or express
feelings (‘Great work!’). Declarations (‘I now pro-
nounce you man and wife’) enact what they say, ef-
fectively changing reality.” Speech act theory is not a
complete model of argumentation, yet it is a relevant
theory that has been widely influential. For example,
earlier (Section 4.4, page 6) we discussed that under-
standing the goals of a conversation could be important
for interpreting it; the same speech acts can be used in

different ways, depending on the goals of a dialogue
10

4.9. Language/Action Perspective

The Language/Action Perspective (LAP) [205] em-
beds Speech Act Theory in a task-based framework.
Argumentation is found in each of the three types
of conversations which accomplish goals in the Lan-
guage/Action Perspective, according to de Moor and
Aakhus: Conversations for action involve making
commitments; conversations for possibility create a
context for action; and conversations for disclosure al-
low participants to share their views and concerns [49].

4.10. Pragma-dialectic

The pragma-dialectic approach is a complete argu-
mentative theory, which has been developed over a
number of years in numerous scholarly works (espe-
cially [184,185,186]) and popularized in the authors’
textbooks (e.g. [187]). Like the Language/Action

 

° As with all speech acts, sincerity is a criterion, and social criteria,
e.g. ceremony, may also hold.

!0For a pertinent example see the persuasion and deliberation sce-
narios discussed in Atkinson et al. [13].

Perspective, it uses speech acts, further developing
Searle’s theory in order to model argumentation.
Rather than focusing on the logical forms and patterns
of reasoning, as Walton does, van Eemeren and Groo-
tendorst’s pragma-dialectic theory views argumenta-
tion as a social process, used to settle “a difference of
opinion by verbal means” [187] (pp. ix-xii).

 

I Confrontation
Assertive Expressing a standpoint

Commissive Acceptance or non-acceptance of a standpoint>
upholding non-acceptance of a standpoint
[Directive Requesting a usage declarative]

[Usage declarative] Definition, specification, amplification, etc.]

af Opening
Directive Challenging to defend a standpoint

Commissive Acceptance of the challenge to defend a standpoint
Agreement on premises and discussion rules
Decision to start a discussion

[Directive Requesting a usage declarative]

[Usage declarative] Definition, specification, amplification, etc.]

mm Argumentation

Directive Requesting argumentation

Assertive Advancing argumentation

Commissive Acceptance or non-acceptance of argumentation
[Directive Requesting a usage declarative]

[Usage declarative] Definition, specification, amplification, etc.]

Iv Concluding

Commissive Acceptance or non-acceptance of a standpoint

Assertive Upholding or retracting a standpoint
Establishing the result of the discussion

[Directive Requesting a usage declarative]

[Usage declarative] Definition, specification, amplification, etc.]

 

Fig. 6. Distribution of speech acts in a critical distribution from
[186].

Depending on the context, the same speech acts can
function as an explanation, a piece of information, or
as an argumentation: for argumentation, the context
must include a difference of opinion. Depending on
their order and position in the discussion, speech acts
take on different meanings, as we will see in Figure 6.
Further, Searle’s illocutionary speech acts, which func-
tion at the sentence-level, combine in argumentation
into a higher-order textual element: the argumentation
is itself seen as a complex speech act.

The main speech acts within an argumentation are
assertives, commissives, and directives. Expressives—
which express emotions—do not help resolve the differ-
ence of opinion, but may affect how or whether the dis-
cussion proceeds. Declaratives—which bring a state of
affairs into being—are relevant for definitions, specifi-
cations, amplifications, and explanations; van Eemeren
and Grootendorst call these “usage declaratives”.

The pragma-dialectic approach also stresses the
principles of clarity, honesty, efficiency, and relevance,
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 9

updating Grice’s Cooperation Principle [64]—which fo-
cuses on the intention of language—with the Searlean
focus on the communicative aspects of language use.
Relevance, for example, can be global, local, subject
matter-specific, or probative. An argument may be rel-
evant at one phase, but irrelevant at another; for exam-
ple an argument related to selecting the topic of dis-
cussion is not relevant once the topic has been agreed
upon.

To understand the force of a speech act—-whether
an assertive, commissive, or directive—, we must iden-
tify where we are in the argumentation. van Eemeren
and Grootendorst identify four dialectical stages of ar-
gumentation: Confrontation, Opening, Argumentation,
and Closing [186]. In the confrontation stage, the issue
at hand is announced, agreed upon, or clarified. In the
opening stages, the rules are agreed to (perhaps implic-
itly). In the main stage (Argumentation), each party is
expected to make a serious effort to support his point
of view, while also allowing the other party to make
his case. Finally, the argument closes when the goal is
fulfilled or the parties agree to end the debate.

The pragma-dialectic approach is far more exten-
sive in attending not only to linguistic patterns, but also
to the social context in which they are embedded (i.e.
the linguistic pragmatics, see e.g. [92]). Argumenta-
tive discourse starts with the assumption that the lis-
tener does not (necessarily) agree with the speaker’s
position, and aims at “coming to a reasonable agree-
ment” [187], p 4. Speakers may anticipate objections,
explaining their reasoning to account for expected (im-
plicit) differences of opinion. Or, they may wait to hear
their conversational partners’ standpoints or doubts,
and then respond.

The issue, according to the pragma-dialectic the-
ory, may be single or multiple, and mixed or non-
mixed. Single disagreement is about just one proposi-
tion while multiple disagreement is about more than
one proposition. If both a positive and a negative stand-
point are taken on the issue, the disagreement is mixed,
otherwise it is simple. This is a particularly useful dis-
tinction for conversations in social media.

Pragma-dialectic is also particularly useful for de-
termining which parts of social media discourse can
be considered argumentative, since it presents phrases
that tend to mark argumentation, and since it treats
speech acts from an argumentative perspective. For ex-
ample, doubt is often implicit, but certain phrases mark
it more explicitly, such as “I don’t know whether",
“T’m not yet convinced that”, “Couldn’t it be that”, and
“T’ll have to think about whether”.

Similarly, set phrases often indicate the topics of
a debate—-helping us detect a participant’s standpoint,
which “expresses a certain positive or negative posi-
tion with respect to a proposition" [186](p. 3). Stand-
points may often be obliquely stated, yet they can
sometimes be recognized by the appearance of partic-
ular phrases, which can be baldly stated (“my stand-
point is that”, “we are of the opinion that”) or explicit
(“I think that”, “if you ask me”, “therefore”). Some
phrases that may be used to indicate a standpoint also

27 468

permit alternate interpretations (“the way I see it”, “in
other words”, “all things considered”). Other patterns,
like “shouldn’t”, “you must never’, “‘that...is”, “ought
to be”, commonly co-occur when a standpoint is ex-
pressed [187](pp. 10-12).

Such phrases, like the metadiscourse markers we
discuss next, can potentially be applied in detecting
and mining argumentation (which we later discuss in
Section 6.12.2, page 17). However, phrase-detection
alone does not suffice, and significant challenges re-
main. Language is multivalent and context is needed
for properly reconstructing argumentation. “In lan-
guage use there is often the case that there is more than
one purpose at the same time, and if language is used
argumentatively, the argumentative function need not
always be the most important," [186](p. 23), meaning
that reconstructing argumentation must extract a single
thread of meaning out of many.

4.11. Linguistic Markers of Argumentation:
Metadiscourse and Structural Elements of Text

We next discuss linguistic markers of argumenta-
tion; strictly speaking these are not theoretical models
of argumentation, yet they identify possible argumen-
tation, essentially enabling the argumentation struc-
tures to be annotated in and abstracted from the text.

Metadiscourse refers to the “aspects of a text which
explicitly organize a discourse or the writer’s stance to-
wards either its content or the reader.” [79](p. 14). Ar-
gumentative words and phrases such as ‘but’ and ‘ac-
cording to X’ are prominent examples. Metadiscourse
is used not only to structure text but also to influence
the reader’s view.

Hyland classifies metadiscourse into interactive and
interactional types. Interactive metadiscourse, which
organizes text, includes transitions (in addition, but,
thus, and); frame markers (finally, to conclude, my
purpose is); endorphoric markers (noted above, see
Fig, in section 2); evidentials (according to X, Z
states); and code glosses (namely, e.g., such as, in
10 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

other words) [79](p. 49). Interactional metadiscourse,
which makes the author’s views explicit and invites
readers’ response, includes hedges (might, perhaps,
possible, about); boosters (in fact, definitely, it is clear
that), attitude markers (unfortunately, I agree, surpris-
ingly); self mentions (J, we, my, me, our); and engage-
ment markers (consider, note, you can see that).

As markers of the persuasive and rhetorical ele-
ments of texts, metadiscourse elements are likely to be
useful signals for identifying claims and arguments in
social media.

4.12. Rhetorical Structure Theory

Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) [110], a method
for analyzing texts according to their structure and
rhetorical role, was developed at the University of
Southern California’s Information Sciences Institute to
assist with computer-based text generation. In RST,
structures such as ‘Concession’, ‘Evidence’, and ‘Jus-
tify’, called ‘relations’, describe the relationship of two
or more spans of text. Generally one span (the most
important) is called the nucleus, while the less impor-
tant spans are known as satellites. In some situations
(such as sequences and contrasts), both spans are nu-
clei of equal weight. Justifications and hedges are more
likely to appear in satellites while the nucleus is more
likely to contain claims; this has potential application
in detecting arguments and in summarizing social web
applications.

4.13. Coherence

Coherence is another important concept in text and
dialogue. Coherence is not an argumentation theory
per se, but it is both an essential part of text, and an
essential part of argumentation, since before an argu-
ment can be understood (much less formally evalu-
ated), how its parts hold together or interrelate must be
understood. Knott compares the following two exam-
ples [91].

1. “Tim must love that Belgian beer. The crate
in the hall is already half empty."

2. “Tim must love that Belgian beer. He’s six
foot tall."

While the first example is coherent the second exam-
ple is more challenging to make sense of: the reader
expects (but does not get) a sensible explanation or ev-
idence for why Tim must love that Belgian beer.

Argumentation relies on coherence: Adding ‘be-
cause’ works in the first example but not in the sec-
ond example. The word ‘because’ stresses the ex-
pected causal relationship, making the informal argu-
ment more evident.

3. “Tim must love that Belgian beer, because the crate
in the hall is already half empty."

In Sentence 3, the reader must still infer some informa-
tion, such as that the crate in the hall contains Belgian
beer, and that Tim is the main person drinking the con-
tents of the crate. Such missing premises are typical in
informal argumentation.

4.14. Cognitive Coherence Relations

One actionable way of expressing coherence is by
using specific signaling terms. The causal relationship
(expressed in ‘because’) is one of the Cognitive Co-
herence Relations which Sanders uses to explain how
readers understand text [152]. The four Cognitive Co-
herence Relations are: Basic Operation (causal or ad-
ditive), Source of Coherence (semantic or pragmatic),
Polarity (positive or negative), Order of Segments (for
causal relations only: basic or non-basic, depending on
whether or not the antecedent appears before the con-
sequent). Based on this, the relationship signaled in be-
cause in Sentence 3 (above) is causal, pragmatic, pos-
itive, and basic.

5. Comparison of Theoretical Models

Any of these models could be expressed in se-
mantic formats (e.g. RDF) since they are compatible
with a graph-based representation of argumentation.
Yet for modeling argumentation on the Social Seman-
tic Web, it is most meaningful to examine the chal-
lenges and opportunities that might advantage any one
model or framework over the others. As previously
noted, various units have been modelled—individual
argument structures (e.g. Toulmin, discussed in Sec-
tion 4.1, page 4), argument chaining (e.g. Araucaria!!
[150,142,144]), and groups of arguments (e.g. Dung,
discussed in Section 4.5, page 6).

We can make several further distinctions between
models, for instance based on the community in which
they originated, their purpose or use, the extent to
which they focus on disagreement, the unit of analysis

 

“http: //araucaria.computing.dundee.ac.uk/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web ll

on which they focus, their granularity, and their suit-
ability for automation or for aiding human reasoning.

5.1. Community of Origin

Various communities have contributed models, par-
ticularly the argumentation and linguistics communi-
ties. The IBIS model comes from management and
was later taken up by design rationale and human-
computer interaction (HCI) communities. The Lan-
guage/Action Perspective originated in artificial intel-
ligence and HCI and was later adopted by communi-
cation theorists. In some cases, models bridge commu-
nities: the pragma-dialectic approach is an argumenta-
tion model which has been heavily influenced by lin-
guistics, and by the theory of pragmatics [92] in par-
ticular. Models have been shaped by their originators
and proponents, and the purposes for which they were
intended.

5.2. Purpose or Use

The intended purpose for each model depends
largely on its origin. Models put forth by the argu-
mentation community are generally designed to sup-
port either analysis (e.g. to determine the reasoning
patterns used and to identify fallacies) or formal rea-
soning, in order to address questions such as compu-
tational decisions of which argument won, what the
deciding factors were, or what values and preferences
were expressed in the discussion. Models of linguistic
features may be used in discourse analysis, for summa-
rization, and to support natural language generation by
both machines and non-native speakers. Models from
other communities are generally intended to support
flow-based process analysis, for instance to organize
information in order to avoid information overload, to
speed human decision-making, and to provide a record
of collaborative thought processes.

5.3. Agreement/Disagreement Focus

Disagreement and the process of coming to con-
sensus are the core of argumentation. While disagree-
ment and agreement are central in models coming from
the argumentation community, other models focus on
this core to a greater or lesser extent. Most linguistic
models are considerably broader and less focused on
the argumentation aspects, yet in addressing conversa-
tion, they provide valuable insights as well as analy-
sis tools. HCI models focus on supporting collabora-

tion and shared visions; disagreement is analyzed or
understood only to the extent necessary for coming to
consensus or providing an overview of viewpoints.

5.4. Unit of Analysis

Different units of analysis have been used. At the
language layer, models may focus on the relation-
ship between different clauses (Metadiscourse, Coher-
ence, Cognitive Coherence, RST) or the communica-
tive function of different words, phrases, and sentences
(Speech Act Theory and the Language/Action Per-
spective). The pragma-dialectic approach focuses on
the propositional level, while factors analysis looks
at important attributes or dimensions. Other models
focus on classifying individual arguments and their
relation to a whole (IBIS), or studying the internal
structure of arguments (Toulmin, Walton, Argumenta-
tion Frameworks, Value-based Argumentation Frame-
works).

5.5. Granularity

Models of linguistic features are more granular,
but sometimes less focused on the overall structure.
Coarse-grained and simple models, such as IBIS, more
common in application. Yet even IBIS is not gener-
ally applied in its full complexity, but is rather reduced
to focusing identifying issues, and then on identifying
pros and cons for a particular issue. Fuller versions be-
come more complex by looking at the relationships be-
tween arguments: what responds to what.

5.6. Ease of Automated Application

Mechanistic application is possible for some mod-
els but not for others. In particular, classification for
Walton’s model would be quite difficult due to the
large number (65) of argument categories and the need
for detailed reasoning. On the hand, in many cases
language technologies can be mechanically analyzed.
Identification and classification of argumentation via
language technologies is still in its infancy, yet offers
great potential to expand algorithmic understanding of
language.

5.7. Support for Human Reasoning
To aid human reasoning, however, linguistic models

that mainly use cue words are probably too granular
since they occur at the sentence level, probably more
12 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

granular than needed. For this purpose, Walton’s crit-
ical questions are very useful, because they can point
humans to the questions that need to be addressed,
opening the door to checklists for reasoning, which
could be applied consistently by groups. Value-based
frameworks also address the basic reasoning underly-
ing social decisions: each person has their own rea-
sons, which may be revealed in the course of a discus-
sion. Focusing on what the values are, and being able
to articulate them, can help both in developing em-
pathy for dissenting viewpoints, and in making clear
the rationale for group decisions when consensus is
needed.

6. Applications of the Models to the Social and
Semantic Web

The theoretical models discussed have been quite in-
fluential, and in many cases we can directly trace So-
cial and Semantic Web applications of these models. In
this section we describing some applications, review-
ing each of the models in turn.

6.1. Applications of Toulmin

Toulmin is cited frequently and in numerous fields,
from rhetoric (e.g. [199]) to education (e.g. [37]) to
computer argumentation (e.g. [103]). While his model
is a useful abstraction, scholars have argued about
whether people actually think in terms of Toulmin’s
warrants [121].

One early hypertext system, SEPIA, drew from the
Toulmin system [171]. A modified version of Toul-
min’s argumentation schemes have been used to de-
scribe a cooperative dialogue game, implemented in
Prolog, in which the participants’ goal is to reach a
claim on which they agree, while also producing a
supporting argumentation structure for the claim [14].
Such dialogue games could be modified for use in
mixed-initiative systems.

In the Semantic Web, the Toulmin Argument Model
has been implemented by an OWL 2 DL ontology
that imports CiTO!? [130]. It follows Toulmin’s model
closely, as shown in Figure 7.

 

Pnttp: //www.essepuntato.it/2011/02/
argumentmodel

 

=I Prefixes

amo http: //www.essepuntato.it/2011/02/argumentmodel/

 

 

[=] Legend|

Kinds of entity
eeesasEt [ones fmeenmewe{ sum] |e

Evidence amo:proves Claim

Qualifier

a

 

 

 

 

amo:supports amo:leadsTo amozisValid Unless

Fig. 7. The core Toulmin argument model ontology [130].

6.2. Applications of Issue-Based Information System
(IBIS)

Although many tools are described as ‘using the
IBIS model’ or ‘IBIS-like’, there is significant varia-
tion in the underlying structure of these models [82].
In our view, these models use ‘IBIS-like’ to mean that
they concern decision-making or design rationale, pro-
vide graphical representations, and use some form of
polarity.

The IBIS model has a long history of use, partic-
ularly with early hypertext systems. Early critiques
of IBIS came from the design rationale community.
One difficulty was that only deliberated issues were
included; Procedural Hierarchy of Issues (PHI) mod-
ifies IBIS to allow inclusion of subissues which are
not deliberated [56]. PHI was adopted by another early
system, the Author’s Argumentation Assistant [157],
which also drew from the authors’ earlier Toulmin-
based system, SEPIA [171].

Another difficulty, representing the relationships
and interdependencies of issues [56], remains chal-
lenging to resolve, though ideas such as nonfunctional
requirements and dependencies (Section 7.6, page 20),
might be relevant.

IBIS has also been used outside of design ratio-
nale. For instance, Gerosa et al. [59] discuss an e-
learning message board system adopting a modifica-
tion of IBIS, where message types are specified. In
addition to the IBIS-analogues, Question, Argumen-
tation, and Counter-Argumentation, the system adds
two types: Seminar (a general topic for the week)
and Clarification. IBIS has also influenced the design
of modern ontologies, including the SALT Rhetorical
Ontology, SIOC-Argumentation, DILIGENT, and the
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 13

Change Ontology which we discuss after reviewing
IBIS’ RDF representation.

6.2.1. IBIS RDF

IBIS RDF® is an RDF representation of the IBIS
model. refersTo is modelled as a subProperty of
dcterms : reference with two subproperties, pro
and con. The larger IBIS vocabulary provides Pub-
lished Subject Indicators!+ for important terms, in-
cluding pro, con, Idea, Question, Argument,
Decision, and Reference.

6.2.2. SALT Rhetorical Ontology

SALT [68] is a rhetorical ontology for scholarly
communication. In SALT, opposing arguments can be
connected together with the relation

Semantically-Interlinked Online Communities [26] —
a model that focuses on representing online communi-
ties and the content shared within them.

While SIOC simply focuses on the notion of replies
(sioc:reply_to) to represent connections be-
tween discussion items, the SIOC-Argumentation mod-
ule goes further and provides finer-grained representa-
tion of discussions and argumentations in online com-
munities.

So far a modification of SIOC that draws from DILI-
GENT and OMDoc has been used in the math wiki
system SWiM'® [99], a Semantic Wiki for Mathemati-
cal Knowledge Management. The SIOC/OMDoc argu-
mentation ontology (Figure 9 on the following page)
is further described in Lange’s dissertation [97]. It in-

hasCounterArgument, while a RhetoricalElementcorporates IBIS-style classes from SIOC (Position,

can also be connected with what it argues for (Argument
and hasArgument, for instance). SALT’s argu-
mentation also includes Reason, which contains
Argument (further specified to PositiveArgument
or NegativeArgument) and CounterArgument.

6.2.3. DILIGENT ontology

DILIGENT provides an argumentative structure
for collaborative ontology construction; the acronym
comes from the phrase Distributed, Loosely-controlled
and evolvInG Engineering processes of oNTologies.
DILIGENT draws from both RST (Section 4.12, page
10) and IBIS (Section 4.2, page 5), as shown in Fig-
ure 8 on the next page.

6.2.4. Change Ontology (ChAO) in Collaborative
Protégé

DILIGENT [36] itself influenced the Change On-
tology in Collaborative Protégé. Castro et al. distin-
guish between an argument (which is well-focused and
specific) and an elaboration (which provides support
for the argument, possibly with file attachments) [36].
Positions become clear through the dispute-resolution
process. With Protégé, various argumentation-related
Annotations can be added, including Explanation,
Proposal, and AgreeDisagreeVote [156].

6.2.5. SIOC-Argumentation

The SIOC-Argumentation!> model [98] expands on
the IBIS model with terms such as Decision and
Argument. It is provided as an extension of SIOC —

 

Bhttp://purl.org/ibis

4nttp://www.topicmaps.org/xtm/index.html#
def-published-subject-indicator

'Shttp://rdfs.org/sioc/argument

Decision, Idea, and Issue), as well as domain-
specific argumentation classes for math (e.g. Wrong,
Keep_as_Bad_Example, Incomprehensible).

As opposed to IBIS-RDF, SIOC-Argumentation
(Figure 10 on page 15) provide the means to easily
integrate argumentation modelling patterns with So-
cial Web applications since it relies on SIOC, already
used in various applications (Drupal7, etc.). However,
SIOC-Argumentation has limitations: it does not rep-
resent taxonomic, causal, or similarity relations, which
prevents its use in contexts that require deeper analysis
of arguments.

6.2.6. SWAN-SIOC

SWAN-SIOC [128] harmonizes the argumentation
aspects of two pre-existing ontologies: along with
SIOC, it is based on SWAN — Semantic Web Appli-
cations in Neuromedicine [44] — an ontology which
focuses on scientific communication in neurology.

SWAN/SIOC uses twelve terms, as shown in Fig-
ure 11 on page 15. The most general term is relatedTo,
which has five direct descendents or subterms. These,
in turn, may have subterms, until we reach the base
terms in the ontology: disagreesWith, agreesWith,
and discusses. SWAN/SIOC provides a simple
model for the relationships between items. Tools using
SWAN-SIOC include PDOnline, which is discussed in
Section A.31, page xiv.

6.3. Applications of Walton

Walton’s model has been widely applied in compu-
tational argumentation [143], and recent research has

 

lSnttp://kwarc.info/projects/swim/demo. html
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oborstesnissue
Decision ksue
hosStotus: onkssue mabedksue: ‘otrenBy
vifsLiteral rifs:Liferall
withates
Bboration Ader
responses Tokssue}
eo | ivenBy
| DaiobaiE hf-Literal
formalizesidea slike
rifs:Literal \gtvenBy
eatecha
ristted SummortzesArgumentation
‘orgementsOn
s | Argument f - >| Argumentafion 1:
Position Challenge Justification Humon-Argumentotion || Machine-Aurgumentatton
pmovidesTenct: rdfs Literal || tia: rifs-Ltteral
| sgremont | [ Agroement | | Arora | Couniréxample| [Evista] | ample |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 8. An overview of the core DILIGENT ontology from [174].

S10c
angumarntatoe

moxiuie ieertty shown]

 

 

suppa

 

Decision

     
 

sunClassOq

Cntology
Entity

 

 

aaa f
oe

 

 

ea

 

SubClass
Whang: Inappropriate | Incormprehensiote |
for Domain

 

 

 

 

Provide
Example

Keep as

So as

 

 

 

 

Fig. 9. The argumentation ontology from SWiM extends SIOC-Argumentation and DILIGENT Argumentation [99].

demonstrated how argument schemes could be used
to aid sensemaking in Amazon reviews [75,74,208].
Avicenna and ArgDF incorporate Walton’s schemes.
The only Social Web application we are aware of is
Parmenides!’ [32,33,34], which uses the following ar-
gumentation scheme and value-based argumentation
frameworks [15]:
Argumentation Scheme AS1:

— Inthe current circumstances R,
— we should perform action A,

 

"http: //cgi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~parmenides/

— to achieve new circumstances S,
— which will realize some goal G,
— which will promote some value V.

The following sixteen critical questions are associ-
ated with Argumentation Scheme AS1:

CQI Are the believed circumstances true?

CQ2 Assuming the circumstances, does the action
have the stated consequences?

CQ3 Assuming the circumstances and that the action
has the stated consequences, will the action bring
about the desired goal?

CQ4 Does the goal realize the value stated?
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 15

  
 
     

agrees_withy
disagrees_with!
eutral_towands

  

 

 

Fig. 10. An overview of the SIOC-Argumentation module from [98].

refersTo(4)
incansistentvith
coOnsistentvith
relevantTo
alternativeTo

related Tol 5)

disagreesWith
inResponseTo(3) agreesWith
anousadrrom discusses
motwatecBy
cites:

Fig. 11. SWAN-SIOC ontology from [42].

CQ5 Are there alternative ways of realizing the same
consequences?

CQ6 Are there alternative ways of realizing the same
goal?

CQ7 Are there alternative ways of promoting the
same value?

CQ8 Does doing the action have a side effect which
demotes the value?

CQ9 Does doing the action have a side effect which
demotes some other value?

CQ10 Does doing the action promote some other
value?

CQI11 Does doing the action preclude some other ac-
tion which would promote some other value?

CQ12 Are the circumstances as described possible?

CQI13 Is the action possible?

CQ14 Are the consequences as described possible?

CQI15 Can the desired goal be realized?

CQ16 Is the value indeed a legitimate value?

6.4. Applications of Walton & Krabbe’s Dialogue
Types

Walton & Krabbe’s Dialogue Types’s have been
influential. Persuasion, in particular, has been exten-

sively studied [132], and the wider area of dialogue
games has been an active area of agent argumentation
[113]. In applications to human argumentation, some
work on deliberation (e.g. [189] and the Parmenides
system Section A.30, page xiii as a whole) has used
dialogue type to focus the discussion.

6.5. Applications of Dung’s Argumentation
Frameworks

Dung’s argumentation frameworks have been in-
credibly influential: as of 2011, the original 1995 paper
has over 450 citations in the ACM Digital Library, and
over 1500 in Google Scholar. A Java reasoner called
Dungine implements Dung’s acceptability semantics
[170]. Dungine is part of ArgKit!’, a Java 5 develop-
ment toolkit for applications that use argumentation; it
is open source, licened under LGPL.

Dung’s approach has driven computational research
in argumentation and provided the basis for a large
body of theoretical work. Among theoretical exten-

 

http: //argkit.org/
16 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

sions of Dung’s work, we have focused on Value-based
Argumentation Frameworks, and the relevant Social
Web application of Dung is in fact an application of
that extension, as we next explain.

6.6. Applications of Value-based Argumentation
Frameworks

Parmenides uses value-based argumentation frame-
works in addition to the argument scheme and criti-
cal questions discussed above. It pinpoints the source
of the disagreement, by having participants respond to
a series of questions in a survey format. The group’s
preferences are revealed in the results, which are dis-
played to administrators as graphical argumentation
frameworks.

6.7. Applications of Factor Analysis

Factor analysis has been applied in Ashley’s legal
argumentation systems, but we know of no specific So-
cial Web applications.

The factors analysis approach is still used by com-
mercial providers of legal information [207]. More re-
cently, automatic text mining has been used to iden-
tify these factors [207]. Generalizing factors, perhaps
using argument schemes and critical questions, could
provide another approach to argument mining; see
for instance Heras’ manual application of argument
schemes to Amazon reviews [75] and Schneider’s fac-
tors analysis of Wikipedia deletion discussions [155].

6.8. Applications of Speech Act Theory

Speech acts are used to model the flow of on-
line conversation in several recent works. Jeong et al.
[83] use semi-supervised machine learning to iden-
tify speech acts in email and forum posts. Ritter et
al. [148] model Twitter conversations with Speech Act
Theory in combination with topic modelling and show
a Speech Act transition map with probabilities for each
state.

One central use is in provenance in the Semantic
Web. For assertions modelled in RDF, Carroll et al.
[30] use the idea of performative warrants, to describe
assertions made legitimately by the authority signing a
Named Graph.

6.9. Applications of the Language/Action Perspective

Using the Language/Action Perspective and draw-
ing from Speech Act Theory, Twitchell et al. [181]

model online conversations to classify them and create
visual maps, used for information retrieval:

“Using current search engines, the searcher could
search for the words Vietnam, war, and critique.
However, many critiques of the war might not con-
tain the word critique, and would thus be lost (or
receive a low ranking) in such a search. If the
searcher was able to issue a query such as Viet-
nam war (critique) where critique is the purpose
of at least one participant in the conversation,
she would likely get better results. The search for
the semantic meaning of the words Vietnam war
using conventional searching techniques would
then be combined with the search for the pragmatic
force of the word critique, yielding a search result
with higher precision than searching on semantic
meaning alone.” [181](bold, underline added).

Attending to Speech Acts can also help predict decep-
tion, which uses ‘fewer assertions and more expres-
sives’ [181].

6.10. Applications of Pragma-dialectics

We are not aware of any argumentation tools spe-
cific to pragma-dialectics. de Moor, however, has taken
a reconstructive approach to argumentation based on
pragma-dialectics (e.g. [49]).

Pragma-dialectics has also been very influential
in the argumentation community, integrated into e.g.
Walton’s textbook descriptions of argumentation [195]
and discussed in at least one journal special issue [25]
and edited collection [183].

6.11. Applications of Metadiscourse and Structural
Elements of Text

Annotating argumentation in natural language often
takes advantage of detecting metadiscourse and docu-
ment structure. Two particularly promising approaches
come from Teufel and Sandor. Teufel’s rhetorical com-
ponent extraction uses machine learning to extract and
classify text according to its rhetorical status [175].
S4ndor’s concept-matching framework detects con-
trasting ideas linguistically, using metadiscourse and
rhetorical markers [6]. Rather than determining the re-
lations between text spans, S4ndor uses her concept-
matching framework to infer contrasts, novel informa-
tion, etc. from the author’s metadiscourse [6].

Teufel and Moens focus on the document-level con-
text, rather than the relationship between text spans. In
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 17

their argument zoning, machine learning is used to ex-
tract and classify text from academic articles accord-
ing to its rhetorical status [175]. Sandor and Teufel and
Moens provide contributions in risk assessment, an-
notation, and audience- and task-specific summariza-
tion. Reuse of their work has included an application
to find rhetorical features of related work sections, first
using classification algorithms, and then applying on-
tologies [9]. However, these techniques are of particu-
lar interest because of further work in argument mining
drawing on these ideas, which we soon discuss (Sec-
tion 6.12.2, page 17).

6.12. Applications of Rhetorical Structure Theory

RST has been widely used for a variety of pur-
poses and in 2006 a paper summarizing its applica-
tions [173] was published. Recently, Mentis et al. [114]
used RST to analyze group decision rationale, compar-
ing new and established groups using relations such
as ‘Interpretation & Evaluation’, ‘Evidence’, ‘Elabo-
ration’, ‘Concession’, and ‘Antithesis’. Summarization
research has frequently drawn upon RST [111,112].
Some further applications of RST and related ap-
proaches are discussed in a recent survey of work
on discourse structure [200]; argumentation might be
found in several genres they discuss, such as in the es-
say analysis and scoring and opinion mining applica-
tions.

6.12.1. DILIGENT

DILIGENT, briefly discussed above as an applica-
tion of IBIS (Section 4.2, page 5), also draws from
RST (Section 4.12, page 10) as shown in Figure 8 on
page 14. To improve the agreement, clarity, and sat-
isfaction [174] of discussions for ontology creation
and refinement, DILIGENT restricts the argumenta-
tion. Five argumentative relations — alternative,

. . Lee : Ta:
evaluation and justification, counterExamplé

elaboration, and example — were drawn from
RST [99], based on the arguments that advanced the
ontology creation process in an experiment [131].

6.12.2. Argumentation Mining

Drawing on rhetorical parsing, argument mining is
a new area of study which seeks to detect and ex-
tract arguments from texts algorithmically. Mochales-
Paulau’s dissertation work [116] focused on mining ar-
guments [117,207,115] from the European Court of
Human Rights and from the Araucaria annotated cor-

pus!, based on Context Free Grammars [207] as well
as techniques from Teufel and Moens. Earlier Grover
et al. [66] adapted Teufel and Moens’ approach to
determine the argumentative role of sentences drawn
from a corpus of legal judgements.

In “Automatic Argumentation Detection and its
Role in Law and the Semantic Web" [117], Mochales-
Paulau and Moens suggest that argument mining could
contribute to the World Wide Argument Web [138],
by extracting argument structures without human an-
notation. As they point out, automatic argument detec-
tion is needed at multiple levels: the inner structure of
each argument as well as the overall structure of how
multiple arguments are combined to contribute to the
argumentative discourse.

6.13. Applications of Coherence

Related notions of coherence are used in Thagard’s
explanatory coherence theory, a computational theory
“an explanatory hypothesis is accepted if it coheres
better overall than its competitors” [176]. This theory
has been applied to analyze scientific reasoning and le-
gal trials.

Another theory it influenced-that of cognitive co-
herence relations, which we discuss next—has been in-
fluential.

6.14. Applications of Cognitive Coherence Relations

Cognitive Coherence Relations contributed to the
development of ScholOnto [109]. In separate work,
Mancini’s cinematic hypertext [108] used Cognitive
Coherence Relations to develop a visual language for
structuring hypertext links, increasing the coherence
of argumentation conveyed in non-linear hypertext by
clearly expressing the rhetorical relationships between
chunks of text. Meanwhile, agent-based argumentation
has used Cognitive Coherence Relations as a theory of
gmatics [126].

‘he ScholOnto [166,17] project, which ran at Open
University’s Knowledge Media Institute from 2001-
2004, focused on modeling claims and arguments
in scholarly communication. ClaiMapper, ClaiMaker,
and ClaimSpotter were among the tools”! developed

 

'9 AraucariaDB™ , the Arucaria corpus of arguments, draws in part
from discussion fora (BBC Talking Point, Christian Apologetics &
Research Ministry Discussion Boards, MSNBC discussion forum,
NPR discussion boards, and Global Greens) [86].

2lhttp: //projects.kmi.open.ac.uk/scholonto/
software. html
18 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

in the project, which was seen as part of sense-
making research. An open source web publishing
tool called the Digital Document Discourse Environ-
ment”, or D?F [164] was also developed in related
research. ScholOnto made an RDF Schema avail-
able, but database queries with SQL were preferred to
querying based on this RDF Schema (SPARQL was
first released as a working draft in 2004). The under-
lying ScholOnto ontology for these projects is shown
in Figure 6.14 on the facing page. This ontology now
underlies one of the applications we later discuss: Co-
here is argument mapping software for sensemaking
that integrates annotation and argumentation for the
general public [162].

7. Ontologies incorporating argumentation

In addition to the seven ontologies discussed above,
which implement or follow from particular theories—
ChAO, DILIGENT, IBIS RDF, SALT, ScholOnto,
SIOC-Argumentation, and SWAN/SIOC-—we now re-
view seven ontologies relevant to argumentation. These
include both dedicated argumentation ontologies (the
Argument Interchange Format) and ontologies de-
signed with substantial input from the argumentation
community (the Legal Knowledge Interchange For-
mat) as well as ontologies that incorporate small num-
bers of argumentative elements (the Annotation On-
tology, bio-zen-plus, the Citation Typing Ontology,
the Non-functional requirements and Design Rationale
Ontology, and the Semantic Annotation Vocabulary).

7.1. Argument Interchange Format (AIF)

The Argument Interchange Format [120] is a pow-
erful, dedicated ontology for argumentation, originally
designed to ensure interoperability of argumentation
software such as ArgDF, ArgKit, Carneades, and On-
line Visualisation of Argument. AIF would be chal-
lenging to apply to the Social Web because it requires
argumentation schemes to be specified. In fact, even
arguments themselves are not necessarily clearly spec-
ified in the informal argumentation found in the So-
cial Web! Thus, for example, enthymemes make for-
mal specification of arguments challenging [22].

The original core ontology, shown in Figure 7.1 on
page 20 consists of two disjoint sets of nodes: informa-
tion nodes (I-nodes) holding the content of the argu-

 

http: //d3e.sourceforge.net /

ment and scheme nodes (S-nodes) holding the relation-
ships between arguments. Scheme nodes are further di-
vided into three main types, for representing logical in-
ference (RA nodes), preferences or values (PA nodes),
and conflicts between I-nodes (CA nodes). More re-
cent work on AIF envisions classification of argumen-
tation schemes, enabling automated reasoning over the
schemes [136]. In Spring 2012, new specifications for
AIF were released in OWL and RDF; an SQL database
definition is also in progress”.

AIF forms the foundation for the World Wide Ar-
gument Web (WWAW). The WWAW is “a large-scale
Web of interconnected arguments posted by individu-
als to express their opinions in a structured manner”
[138], where RDFS and OWL were suggested to be
used for AIF. The foundations of the World Wide Ar-
gument Web have been further discussed by Rahwan
and others (e.g. [139,134,135]).

AIF has continued to develop, and several published
extensions of AIF exist. Rahwan adds form nodes (F-
nodes) [138] in order to more fully represent generic
argument schemes (as opposed to the instantiations
of those schemes). Then Walton’s argument schemes
can be represented, using ConflictSchemes to capture
exceptions/Critical Questions. With AIF-RDF™*, Rah-
wan et al. [138] add RDFS extensions to an AIF im-
plementation. In this implementation, edges are explic-
itly typed. Letia and Groza add a Context Node, used
to evaluate the same argument in different contexts
[100]. Rahwan et al. [136] present a new formalization
of AIF in OWL-DL, implemented in Avicenna (Sec-
tion A.9, page iii). Work on this area continues, largely
published in the Computational Models of Argument
(COMMA) conference series, with a large body of
promising research in the 2012 edition of this biannual
conference.

While AIF was intended to model monological ar-
guments, dialogue has been another area of inter-
est in AIF extensions, with work from Modgil and
McGinnis [118] and Reed et al. (e.g. [146]). Ear-
lier work began the process of extending monological
AIF for use in representing dialogical argumentation
[141,145,147,140].

 

Bretp: //www.arg.dundee.ac.uk/?page_id=197

4nttp://argdf.org/source/ArgDF_Ontology.
rdfs

Shttp://www.comma-—conf.org/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 19

Problem
Related

Causal Similarity

 

Supports/
Challenges

+ t
General | Taxonomic |

 

 

 

 

 

is similar

is differs

f causing is the oppo:
cr nar

has

to affect ts anal

 
 
  

 

  

 

Fig. 12. Class structure of the Scholarly Discourse Ontology from [166] .

7.2. Annotation Ontology

Argumentation enters into the Annotation Ontol-
ogy’s*® [43] curation use case. In that use case, a hu-
man curator reviews an annotation created by a text
mining service, and first rejects it. This curator sub-
sequently changes her mind after a discussion with a
second curator, and finally accepts the annotation af-
ter all. The statuses Rejected , Discusses, and
Accepted express an argumentative workflow in this
situation.

The Annotation Ontology has been used by existing
tools such as the SWAN Annotation Framework and
Utopia PDF reader [177]. It is currently being incorpo-

tated into a new W3C standard for Open Annotation
7

7.3. bio-zen-plus ontology framework

The bio-zen-plus ontology*® [151] is an ontology
for biology; as the name suggests, it is an extension of
the bio-zen ontology’. It includes two argumentative

 

http: //code.google.com/p/
annotation-ontology/
7hetp://www.openannotation.org/spec/core/
Bhttp://neuroscientific.net/bio-zen-plus.
owl
Mhetp://neuroscientific.net/index.php?id=43

properties, supported-—by and in-conflict-with,
augmenting the argumentation-related
correlation-concepts,

suchasPositive correlation (unsigned),
Positive correlation (signed),

Negative correlation (unsigned), and
Negative correlation (signed), whichare
found within the bio-zen ontology’.

7.4. Citation Typing Ontology (CiTO)

CiTO*! [160,161] is an ontology for citation net-
works in scholarly publications. Its argumentative
terms include corrects, confirms,
gives support to,is agreed with by,
is ridiculed by, qualifies, and refutes.
Papers can thus be semantically enhanced.*? For ex-
ample, an author could indicate in a paper that it
updates a previous publication, and critiques a
piece of related work, while using evidence from an-
other paper (citesAsEvidence). Readers can as-
semble bibliographies using CiTO properties, for in-
stance with the bibliographic management software

 

Mhtetp: //neuroscientific.net/bio-zen.owl

hetp://purl.org/spar/cito

2hetp://imageweb.zoo.ox.ac.uk/pub/2008/
plospaper/latest/
20 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

Graph
[Informally: Argument metuork]

 

 

 

 

is-a
|

Scheme node (S-node)

for: scheme application node

[Informally: Rule]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is-a has-a

 

 

 

 

]
Information node (I-node)
or: data node
[Informally : Node]

 

 

 

 

 

|
Derived And
Rule of inference Conflict Preference eritati price PEE rer
application application application aii bolt al) Se eae oat a
nade (RA-nade) mode (CA-node)) |node ¢PA-node) te Fey ‘
CP ee application
defeat) mode

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Conflict achene|—is a—>] Scheme }¢——— is eles
[__————*

 

Rule of inference scheme
[also: rule scheme]

 

s-a isa S=8
Logical Presumptive |
inference inference

scheme scheme

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ca.

Logical | Logical Presumptive! |

Le

is a is

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conflict aoe preference) |preference
scheme scheme scheme

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fig. 13. Concepts and relations of the Argument Interchange Format

CiteULike*’, showing the possibilities of semantic an-
notation.

7.5. Legal Knowledge Interchange Format

Legal Knowledge Interchange Format (LKIF)*,
developed as part of the ESTRELLA project, is an
OWL ontology [3] for the legal domain. Its Rules
& Argumentation Module deals with Exceptions,
Rules, Arguments, and Assumptions [133]. It
also imports the LKIF Expression Module, which pro-
vides “‘a vocabulary for describing, propositions and
propositional attitudes (belief, intention), qualifica-
tions, statements and media” [133]. It includes terms
for various PropositionalAttitudes, as well
as Intention and Lie, for instance.

 

Brttp://www.citeulike.org/
http: //www.estrellaproject .org/lkif-core/
lkif-rules.owl#

7.6. The NDR Ontology

The Non-functional requirements and Design Ra-
tionale (NDR) Ontology [102] addresses the visual-
ization of non-functional requirements as Softgoal In-
terdependency Graphs. While some classes (such as
Softgoal) are specific to this domain, the NDR
Ontology introduces useful argumentative labels and
causal relationships. For example, the label prop-
erty can be used to indicate the extent to which
goals are met (i.e. whether they are adequately ‘satis-
ficed’): Denied, Weakly denied, Undecided,
Weakly satisficed, Satisficed,orConflict.
NDR also has classes for Argument ation, Claim,
Contribution, and Interdependency (includ-
ing a subclass,

Correlation). The Cont ribution of child goals
to the parent goal can be labelled as Break, Hurt,
Unknown, Help, Make, etc.
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 21

7.7. Semantic Annotation Vocabulary

The Semantic Annotation Vocabulary [60] was de-
veloped for the Trellis system (Section A.35, page
xvi). They used various dimensions: pertinence, reli-
ability, credibility, causality (e.g. contribute to, indi-
cate), and temporal ordering, as well as structural rela-
tionships (such as part/whole, example-of, describes).

8. Comparison of Semantic Web Models

In Figure 14 on the following page we present a
comparison of the Semantic Web models discussed.
Topics addressed include whether each ontology is
centered on relations or concepts as well as whether
it is IBIS-like (i.e. does it contain concepts function-
ally equivalent to IBIS’ ‘Statement’, ‘Issue’, ‘Posi-
tion’, and ‘Argument’?). We also cover what types
of relations it contains, drawing from ScholOnto’s
types: causal, similarity, generic, supporting, challeng-
ing, taxonomic (e.g. hierarchical categorization), and
problem related. Further, we describe whether polarity
(e.g. positive vs. negative) and weights are explicit or
implicit and whether the ontology specifies other on-
tologies to use for content provenance and authorship
provenance (such as from FOAF, SIOC, or PAV-the
Provenance & Authoring and Versioning ontology**)
and domain knowledge (such as from DOLCE, SKOS,
or the PRotein Ontology). We have used a ‘?’ to indi-
cate that we were not able to find this information in
publications, or when information was ambiguous, to
reconcile it.

Some models provide a shallow view of arguments
yet are situated within a larger (perhaps social) con-
text. Yet other models, originating in the argumenta-
tion community, focus on representing the arguments
themselves, often including the internal structure of
the arguments. The argumentation community’s inter-
est in the Semantic Web has been motivated in part by
the idea of The World Wide Argument Web (WWAW)
[138], while the semantic web community’s interest
has centered on communication structures, rather than
the details of argumentation or rhetoric.

 

Shtetp://swan.mindinformatics.org/spec/1.2/
pav. html

9. Features of Social Web Tools

We conducted a thorough review of argumentation
tools for the Social Web, attending especially to exist-
ing Social Web sites, tools using the Semantic Web,
and prototypes from the research community in Social
Web and Semantic Web. In this section we describe re-
lated reviews of argumentation tools, the scope of our
review, and some highlights concerning thirteen par-
ticular features of these systems—visualization, ease of
use, collaboration, user engagement, balancing contri-
butions, deliberative polling, distributive and federated
systems, annotation, incremental formalization, pop-
ulating knowledge bases from user input, mixed ini-
tiative, search, reasoning and querying. These provide
ideas of the aspects that may be need to be consid-
ered for argumentation systems on the Social Seman-
tic Web. For further detail about each system we re-
viewed, consult the Appendix, Section A, page i.

9.1. Related Reviews

Argumentation tools have been reviewed and overviewed

in various publications, including two contemporary
books. Visualizing Argumentation [87] presents eight
chapters which cover the history and cognitive foun-
dations of argumentation tools; describe tools for col-
laborative learning and deliberation; provide insight
into map-based facilitation of in-person meetings; and
describe mapping scholarly debates. Of particular in-
terest in this exceptional volume is the chapter on
“The Roots of Computer Supported Argument Visu-
alization" [165]. Knowledge Cartography: Software
Tools and Mapping Techniques [122] provides seven-
teen case studies of using mapping and argumentation
tools, primarily in education, but also in science, poli-
tics, and organizational knowledge transfer.
Argumentation tools have also gained attention in
e-government (e.g. [107], or for a tools review see
‘Opinion gathering in e-democracy’, Chapter 3 of
Cartwright’s dissertation, [35]) and education ([{153]).
Crossover interest in politics from the IEEE commu-
nity is evidenced by a “Trends & Controversies’ sec-
tion “AI, E-government, and Politics 2.0" [39].
Scheuer et al. [153] review 45 argumentation sys-
tems*® used in Computer Supported Collaborative
Learning and discuss 13 empirical studies involving

 

36Six of these systems are also discussed in our review below:
Argunet, ConvinceMe, CoPe_it!, Debategraph, Debatepedia, and
SEAS.
22 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

&
2
Fy 3 3
: 5 3 8 < 8
-= a Ee -— =
5 6 fg & e $ z §
= nN oO o e ¥ : =
fo w ec 6 = 5 Yu =z °o e 5S oo
o 2 = o s = -
2 © 4 gg a é zs $ - § gs 3 §& a
Concept/Relation centered] R Cc R R R? R Cc Cc R R R R Cc ?

 

OWL/RDF] OWL RDFS OWL OWL OWL RDFS RDFS RDFS OWL OWL RDFS RDFS OWL RDFS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Statement] N Y Y N Y Ne N Y N N N N Y N
Issue] N Y N N Y Y N Y N N N N N N
Position} N Y N N Y Y N Y N N N N Y N
Argument] N Y N N Y Y Y Y N N N N N N
Causal} N N N N N N N N N N Y Y Y¥ N
Similarity} N N N N N N N N N N N Y N N
Generic] N N Y N Y Y N N Y Y N Y Y N
Supporting] Y N N Y Y N Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
Challenging] Y N N Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
Taxonomic] Y N N N N N N N N N N Y Y N
Problem-related| Y N N N Y Y Y Y N N N Y N N
(a)
Polarity Weights oe Pens bomen Design context
Provenance Provenance knowledge
NDR Ontology Implicit None None None None Sets
engineering
IBIS RDF Explicit None None None None oo ae
solving
Annotation Ontology Implicit For correlations FOAF, PAV SIOC, PAV Open Annotation
. oe DOLCE, SKOS, .
Bio-zen plus Implicit None SIOC FOAF Bio model Biology
DILIGENT Implicit None ? Actor name None See
ontology design
. System: author, System: author, Collaborative
chao ee None date, time date, time Coe ontology design
Scholarl
SALT Implicit None Implicit None Open eno ar Ys
communication
SIOC-Arg Implicit None SIOC ? None Social Web
SWAN/SIOC Implicit Implicit SIOC ? None Scientific Discourse
ciTO Implicit None None None None Scholarly citations
Sem. Ann. Voc. Implicit Implicit ? ? None Web of trust
ScholOnto Implicit Implicit None None None Digital libraries
LKIF Explicit None Agents ? ? Legal
AIF Explicit None ? ? ? Argumentation
(b)

Fig. 14. A comparison of Semantic Web models for argumentation in terms of (a) structure; and (b) features.
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 23

the use of argumentation systems in education. Inter-
esting results from their work are that arguments are
constructed in learning applications in five main ways:
free-form arguments, argumentation based on back-
ground materials, arguments rephrased (e.g. reworded
and rekeyed) from a transcript, arguments extracted
(e.g. copied/pasted) from a transcript, and system-
provided units, with combined approaches also used in
some applications. Further, they compare the advan-
tages and disadvantages of user-controlled and system-
controlled layouts for education. Their discussion of
ontologies is limited.

This tools coverage in this section differs from pre-
vious coverage in its scope of collaborative, Web-
based tools with argumentation components, and in
its attempt at comprehensiveness. A further bias has
been software aimed at use by the public, rather than
exclusively for government consultation, enterprise
decision-making, or learning argumentation and criti-
cal thinking skills. However, we have deliberately in-
cluded several research prototypes which focus on Se-
mantic Web approaches to argumentation on the Web
and on supporting the nascent World Wide Argumen-
tation Web.

9.2. Scope: Collaborative, Web-based tools with
argumentation components

Tools were considered in-scope if they were collab-
orative (i.e. involved sharing information among mul-
tiple parties who could build upon each others’ work
in some way), Web-based (i.e. allowed display of in-
formation on the Web), and had argumentative dis-
cussion components. By argumentative discussion, we
mean discussion around disagreements, explanations,
and reasons, coming from or including a rational (i.e.
reason-based) standpoint.

Some prospective tools were excluded due to failing
one or more of these conditions.

Tools failing the ‘collaborative’ criterion included
the EUProfiler*’, and the HealthCentral/Washington
Post Poligraph 2008°*. Users of these tools viewed per-
sonalized visualizations, based on their answers to a
questionnaire, however they are not asked (or able) to
share their comments on others’ views, to interact with
other users (adding to a larger debate), or to contribute
to sensemaking or analysis of existing argumentation.

 

Thetp://euprofiler.eu/
Bhttps ://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/
health/interactives/poligraph/

Tools failing the ‘Web-based’ criterion included
email tools such as WIT and Zest, SAIC’s SIAM and
Causeway, and the argumentation tools Carneades,
Araucaria, and Convince Me*?. WIT*® [19] and Zest
[210] focused on argumentation in email. SLAM*! and
Causeway"? are Windows-based software for influence
net modeling, designed for analyst use and primarily
for collaboration inside the firewall; although HTML
can be exported, Web-based collaboration is not sup-
ported. Similarly, Carneades*? maps can be shared in
LKIF, but not directly visualized online. Araucaria
[150,142,144] offers a searchable online argument cor-
pus, but not online display of its arguments. While
Convince Me* offers a Java applet for display, argu-
ments cannot be saved or published via the applet.

Tools failing the ‘argumentative discussion’ crite-
tion included general Web2.0 tools as well as Anek-
dotz, and Vox Populi. General Web2.0 tools (e.g. Twit-
ter“, Facebook*’) and social software (generic mail-
ing lists, forums) were excluded since their argumen-
tation support is peripheral. Anekdotz*® failed because
the sites currently using it focus on the emotional,
rather than the rational, aspects of argumentation. For
example, the breakups section of When You Knew
asks commenters to click on either ‘Put their stuff on
the curb’ or ‘Give em another shot’ to solicit feed-
back, which is marked as positive, negative, or neutral.
Vox Populi*? [24] supports documentary filmmakers
in generating argumentative film sequences based on
annotated interviews.

Further, tools were treated differently depending on
their origin and availability; for instance, it was con-
sidered helpful to include many contemporary research
systems even though we were not able to interactively
explore Web-based demo versions for some of those
systems. We have inevitably missed some relevant sys-
tems, and would appreciate the reader’s assistance in
fixing this flaw.

 

3°Note that we do include the similarly named ‘ConvinceMe’ site
in Section A.17, page viii.

Mnttp://www.w3.org/WIT/

‘http: //www.inet.saic.com/inet-public/siam.
htm

2http://www.inet.saic.com/inet-public/
causeway.htm

Shttp://carneades.berlios.de/

“http: //araucaria.computing.dundee.ac.uk/

Shttp://codequild.com/convinceme/

http: //twitter.com

http://www .facebook.com/

Shttp://www.anekdotz.com/

http: //homepages.cwi.nl/~media/demo/IWA/
24 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

9.3. Classifications of social tools

Aakhus and collaborators [49,4] classify argumen-
tation software by use: issue networking, funnelling,
or reputation (Figure 15 on the next page). Shum says
that each tool is ‘tuned’ to a different task: “foraging
for material, classifying and linking it, discussing it in
meetings and online, and evaluating specific points in
more depth" [163]. We later use this categorization, as
‘Functional type’ in our comparison of tools.

Scheuer et al. [153] compare the visualization and
representation styles of argumentation tools used in
computer-supported collaborative learning. They sum-
marize the pros and cons of 5 representation styles,
as shown in Figure 16 on the facing page. We later
use this categorization, as “Representation style’ in our
comparison of tools. Scheuer’s representation styles
are typically used for discussions (linear represen-
tation), modeling (container), or both (threaded,
graph). For instance, graph representations are highly
expressive, with explicit labelling of relationships, but
make it hard to see temporal sequences.

9.4. List of social and Semantic Web tools considered

In this section we draw from our review of thirty-
seven online argumentation tools: AGORA: Partici-
pate - Deliberate, ArgDF, Arguehow, Argument Blog-
ging, Argumentum, Argumentations.com, Argunet,
Avicenna, bCisiveOnline, Belvedere, Cabanac’s an-
notation system, Climate CoLab, Cohere, Compet-
ing Hypotheses, Considerlt, ConvinceMe, CoPe_it!,
CreateDebate, Debate.org, Debategraph, Debatepe-
dia, Debatewise, DiscourseDB, Dispute Finder, Hy-
pernews, LivingVote, Opinion Space, Online Visual-
isation of Arguments, Parmenides, PDOnline, REA-
SON, Riled Up!, SEAS, Trellis, TruthMapping, and
Videolyzer. These systems are described and discussed
individually, in alphabetical order, in the Appendix,
Section A, page i.

9.5. Visualization

Overviews and visual representations aid under-
standing. Here we point out visualization features of
some Social Web argumentation tools, along with
screenshots; further details are available in the ap-

 

50The container approach uses discrete visual areas to group re-
lated items. For example in Debatepedia each question is contained.
in a frame with pro and con arguments on that question.

pendix. Argument maps are one classic representation,
which continues to be popular with a variety of tools,
including Argunet, Cohere, and Climate CoLab.

On Argunet, users have significant control over the

presentation of arguments, such as colors and descrip-
tions of different argument families. Related maps can
be published in series, as shown in Figure 17(a) on
page 27. In the argument map representation, each
node can be opened up to reveal a matrix listing
which other arguments support, attack, are supported
by, and are attacked by the given node (Figure 17(b)
on page 27).

Phase 2 Nodes: 16
The substantiation that the fossilized plants Edges: 17
lie at the top of the Greywacke triggered a
new anomaly. On the one hand, the fossil
criterion (H1) seemed to imply that the tap
fr layers of the Greywacke are Carboniferous
(Fossil-clock-argument). On the other
hand, all British Carboniferous coal ...

Inferential Density:
3

Phase 3 Nodes: 20
Murchison and his colleagues assembled Edges: 23
empirical evidence from all over Europe,
hoping to obtain clues about the correct
dating of the Devon Greywacke. During an
a expedition to Russia in 1840, they found,

(a)

Coe ee a ed or

Inferential Density:

Press 9 i .

oasits etsewhore found in
Carboniterous stata opeut (only) at
the top of the Devon Greywacke

| Me napeeee
| cara |
(Steet terete

a ]
tel |

 

(b)

Fig. 17. Argunet can show an (a) overview of several related argu-
ment maps; and (b) in each individual map, nodes can be opened up
to show arguments they support, attack, are supported by, and are
attacked by.

In Argumentum®! arguments are colored to indi-

cate the supporting (green) and opposing (red) argu-
ments (Figure 18 on page 27). Comments, but not
their replies, are similarly colored to indicate agree-
ment or disagreement. Pro and con arguments are dis-
tinguished by green and red lines to the left of a com-
ment, posted linearly, rather than in two columns.

Competing Hypotheses™ supports breaking down

information into hypotheses, evidence, and analysis,

 

SIhttp: //arg.umentum.com/
hetp: //competinghypotheses.org/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

 

discussions

- Addresses issue of sequential
incoherence

- Modeling

Graph (e.g., Belvedere,
Digalo)

- Discussions
- Modeling

- Intuitive form of knowledge
modeling (Suthers et al. 1995)

- Highly expressive
(e.g., explicit relations)

- Many graph-based modeling
languages exist

Container (e.g., - Modeling

SenseMaker, Room 5)

- Easy to see which argument
components belong together
and are related

Matrix (¢.g., Belvedere) - Modeling - Easy systematic investigation
of relations

- Missing relations between
elements are easily seen

(Suthers 2003)

A clash of claims Enables a full exploration of the race aes
mecnorlicie where the interaction agreements, disagreements,and participants to share
gE is organized into a web rationales for position bur explore, and learn about
of Issues with relevant typically provides no each others’ positions and
«Hyper jansandreasons functionalities for sectiing reasons and where these
= QuestMap developed for differences. will be held accountable
SConpardiien each issue. to the doubes of others.
Funneling ‘Treat argumentation Sequences interaction Into a A situation calls for a
z 35 ACCVE CONSENSUS series of activities thar commitment by all
; formation where successively Narrow a Gispute or participants to 3 particular
= \GroupSye interaction is decision toward the most course of action. This
-SAMM organized into a flow acceptable conclusion. The Stands in concrast to
= Other GDSS from broad differences functionalities such as issue-networking, which
- Voting taals toward an acceptable = brainstorming, categorizing,and = alms primarily at
conclusion. votng provide means to remove self-correcthon,
resistance to collective action. Ot At CONSENSUS
Reputation ‘(Creace a Provides means like ratings for A situation calls for
Ennripless base for action by individual discovering and cultivating
pooling and refining with each other over experts. It
SEgeee actrees fee erce who the bestanswers stands in contrast co both
Sai eas a community of pss cinapracko ghee funneling, because it does
~ Webi participants. most wants answered, Th not aim at consensus, and
orchestration Cee issue- because
anda repository of answers. people are mot
from their standpoints.
Fig. 15. Issue-networking, funnelling, and reputation, from [49].
Representation style Typical uses Pros ‘Cons
Linear (e.g., chat) - Discussions —- Familiar and intuitive to most - Risk of sequential incoherence
(especially users, easiest to use (McAlister et al. 2004)
synchronous) _ Rest to see temporal sequence - Not suited to represent the
and most recent contributions conceptual structure of
arguments
~ Lack of overview
Threaded (e.g., forums, - Discussions - Familiar and intuitive to most - Moderately hard to see temporal
Academic Talk) (especially users, easy to use sequence (because of multiple
asynchronous) - Easy to manage large threads) as compared to Linear

~ Limited expressiveness (only
tree-like structures)

- Hard to see temporal
sequence

- Lack of overview in large
argumentation maps (need a
lot of space, can lead to
“spaghetti” images (Hair
1991; Loui et al. 1997)

~ Limited expressiveness (e.g.,
only implicit relations, only
tree-like structures)

~ Lack of overview in large
argumentation maps because
of missing relations

~ Limited expressiveness (e.g.,
supports only two element
types (row, column), no
relations between relations)

- Uncommon (Non-intuitive)
way of making arguments

 

Fig. 16. Comparison of the visualization and representation styles of CSC.

'L argumentation tools, from [153].
26 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

poWade Abii) 0 ovis Henan

| Healthcare is a human right
You rt oppose

‘Top | Rew nied) EG eo On Fave (ws to ot) 27

   

rear sori by relevance #) (any positon #) EEE

] | Kevinconner t 1
‘yinal are “human ronis"7The ony noms Wwe shows De conceMmed about are ihe Monts promised to us by Our
| | Constnton. We do NOT need a larger goverment Lat tree markat capitalism oo it's job, The government
| pawing contrat over neat.
‘comment Pon

& e100
Spearman t 1 ;
| can not Be refused. What I maan by this i a "right" & lntaly dependent en your own acton, | have the :
to free speech, My actions may result in my Geath but no-one can stop me from doing It you are on @ -
4 | seserted land an
AGomment Prema ® ¢76
{ 1
ne has the right fo fa, iberty and the pursuit of happiness, that should not ba circumscribed by
the ability to pay the extreme fees charged by tha fascists (I mean the insurance companies). The LS is the
ely industrial naan that do.

 

believe

 

 

40 #1

  

vas sities god =

Fig. 18. In Argumentum, the left-hand color bars indicate the sup-

porting (green) and opposing (red) arguments Fig. 21. At CreateDebate, users add and comment on pro and con

arguments.

which are entered into a matrix as shown in Fig-
ure 36(a) on page vii. The matrix can help visually in-
dicate the most likely and least likely scenarios.>* Mul-
tiple analyses can be combined to provide a group view
(Figure 36(b) on page vii), or compared pairwise.
ConsiderIt™* [94,93] powers the Living Voters’
Guide®. What is unique is the possibility to drill down
to understand other voters’ perspectives. In addition to
seeing pros and cons on an issue from all voters, re-
gardless of their stance, (Figure 20(a) on the follow-
ing page), the Living Voters’ Guide can show the key
points for a particular group of voters (Figure 20(b) on
the next page), such as those undecided on the issue or

 

strongly supporting it. This can help users understand Fig. 22. Opinion Space maps comments in a constellation view.

what makes an issue controversial. Users indicate how

they feel about an issue before and after reading an SEAS [105,104] structures arguments as templates,

argument (deliberative polling), which could also be showing a colored tree view (Figure 23 on the facing

used to find the most convincing arguments. page). SEAS visualization features are also consider-
CreateDebate (Figure 21 on page 27) offers nu- able: to visualize multiple dimensions, SEAS uses star-

merous statistics for each debate, such as the lan- burst, constellation, and table views.

guage grade level, average word lengths, and vocab-
ulary overlap, as well as a wordcloud. Some debates
have more than two sides. Replies can ‘support’, ‘dis-
pute’, or ‘clarify’ a given point.

In Opinion Space [55], opinions are mapped in a
constellation, using principal component analysis, to
show a user where they stand compared to other re-
spondents, as shown in Figure 22 on page 27. Each
point in the visualization represents a perspective;
larger points represent more popular perspectives.

9.6. Ease of use

By ‘ease of use’, we mean how easy an interface is
to use, based on our own perception. ConvinceMe®
lets users add arguments to pro or con columns, or add
a rebuttal by clicking a button. Arguments can be voted
up or down. Various other systems (discussed in the
appendix) have similar functionality.

Debatepedia®’, a wiki-based system, provides an
intuitive editing environment, where users can edit the

entire page or just the relevant section, such as the pro
*3More sophisticated ACH-based software uses matrices as input or con for a topic.

to Bayesian probabilistic reasoning.
“http: //engage.cs.washington.edu/

considerit/ SShttp: //www.convinceme.net/
Shttp://www. livingvotersguide.org/ http: //debatepedia.idebate.org/

 

 
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 27

Edit your enasistency scores Duplicate personal matrix

‘Show Data Columns | | Sart Hypotheses || Sort Evidence |

ee ee rs

ery Inconniniant Nestea!
Sen Neutral Inconsistent

ee oe ered

 

Inconsistent Incoresistent

1B veh: (arian tans 28)

Compare the rabiogs of { tester

 

‘view others’ personal matrices; (Manew surton iS) (Views)

(a)

 

Group Matrix

Consensus Guage: . Unsnieniny

[Show Data Columns || Sort Hypothases || Sort Evidence |

   
  

Pe eg
LL

Consensus (@) Consensus | Consensus No |
Mild Dispute:

Mild Dispute

    
   
 

Consensus () Consensus 6

Consensus 1

 

‘Compare the ratings of [ vester

TE) wen; Cwatbew eurton — TS) (a

 

‘new others’ personal matrices: | Mattheew furton 589 (View.

(b)

Fig. 19. In Competing Hypotheses, (a) each individual’s analysis is represented in a consistency matrix; (b) multiple analyses can be combined
to create a group matrix. In the group view, darker shades of purple indicate more disagreement.

=
Explore what other voters think about 1053. ii]
Cooren uber reseed! he eypata Baise uur betes Pe
=—oO

‘om your rat a come

 

PED INE ou ins (ohatte ts gaancn chloe wacanend aor

   

(a)

    

Explore what other voters think about 1053. all
‘GGK on a Bere Bee seme ete hey poss Bue ine Group Eaves
aco

ree
Ce eran Ss a cvclavaani cham Oe eet

         

(b)

Fig. 20. The Living Voters’ Guide compiles pro and con lists on each issue. They give (a) an overview of what all voters think about the issue; as

well as (b) the key points for undecided voters.

 

 

 

 

 

Arg °
“|
1 1.3.1 UNUSUAL TRANSACTION: ts there a large, unusual, of questionable |
ansaction?
John Lowrance On: 15 Jan 2007 16:45:30

@ Yes, almost certainly
Likely, more likely than not
Even, about as likely as not
Unlicely, more unlikely than not
No, almost certainly not

 

 

 

  
  

 

Rationale: The bank transaction is sufficiently large to warrant strong

suspicion.

eo Bank Tr ci Record - 15 May 2006 6
mtered Dy: Ti

 

Boyce 17 Dee 2006 93243
: 8; This contains a large transaction that is out
of the ordinary for a business of this size,

 

 

4 Computer of Employee Jahn Doe - 13 Mar 2006
bee Erie Yeh On: 14 Nov 2006 10:19:43
je e: Deleted records on his computer included
references to. a known problematic company.

 

 

Email Messape tram John Doe to Jane Ooe - 5 Apr 2006
ip Janel Murdock On: 18 Jan 2007 1:2223

Exhibits | "|

 

 

 

Fig. 23. SEAS visualizes arguments as a tree; colors indicate the
credibility level [105].

Living Vote*® asks participants to vote on argu-
ments in a tree. “To vote on an argument, you must first
prove you’ve read it by answering a simple question.”
Users can also add arguments to the tree.

9.7. Collaboration

Systems approach collaboration in various ways.

bCisive Online is intended for real-time collabora-
tion in conjunction with with audio conferencing. One
person edits the map at a time, adding nodes and con-
nections between nodes while others can point with
their cursor or request editing control.

Climate CoLab uses moderation to help review
comments and deal with the learning curve for argu-
ment mapping. While any user can add Pros, Cons, and
Issues directly to an argument map, moderators are ex-

 

Shttp://www.LivingVote.org/
28 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

pected to keep track of the conversation, adding new
ideas to the argument map as needed.

Competing Hypotheses*’ has persistent chat (es-
sentially a comment thread) for the entire project as
well as message boards for each hypothesis, evidence
item, and evidence-hypothesis pair.

On Debatewise™, everyone can collaborate in cre-
ating the strongest case both for and against a given
issue, using teams.

9.8. User Engagement

Debatewise also makes it easy to get involved by
providing suggestions of 5-minute, 20-minute and 1-
hour tasks and showing “7 things you should have an
opinion on" in rotating images on the homepage.

Social networking is one part of the engagement at
Debate.org, which allows users to search for people
with particular profile attributes, such as income, lo-
cation, ideology, gender, president, religion, and who
they are interested in and looking for.

Along with adding comments, on many sites, users
can vote for arguments that convinced them (e.g. Cre-
ate Debate). A user’s reputation is generally based on
the success of their arguments. Votes may be weighted,
for instance after 10 up or down votes, further votes
have less influence on ArgueHow.

Competition helps engage users at other sites, which
can be quite explicit about this aspect; for instance,
Riled Up!’s tagline is “Like Raising Cain? So Do We."
Other sites, like ConvinceMe treats debates as games;
in one such game, the debater whose idea is most pop-
ular is crowned “King of the Hill”. Competitive de-
bating environments may use point schemes and user
rankings to motivate contributions.

9.9. Balancing Contributions

There are several approaches to balancing contribu-
tions. For example, by removing authorship markers,
argument maps may increase the neutrality of a con-
versation.

Another approach to balancing is taken by TruthMap-
ping®', which focuses on having a persistent con-
versation which can not be drowned out by a single
opponent. Users can leave feedback in critiques at-
tached to each premise and conclusion (Figure 53(b)

 

Shetp: //competinghypotheses.org/
®nttp://debatewise.org/
Slhttp: //www.truthmapping.com/

on page xvii), users can continually modify each con-
tribution, but can only post one critique on each node.
Anyone can leave a rebuttal, but only one user, the
original arguer, can modify the map. The system in-
dicates when comments are out of sync with the map,
and a wiki-style history is available to better trace the
conversation.

9.10. Deliberative Polling

One measure of arguments is how persuasive they
are. Measuring how users feel about an issue before
and after reading an argument—known as deliberative
polling [57]-is used in some systems, such as Con-
siderIt, Living Vote, and OpinionSpace.

Debate.org uses deliberative polling but places
more importance on other factors besides agreement
when scoring debates, giving the most importance to
using reliable sources and making convincing argu-
ments.

9.11. Distributed and Federated Systems

Systems can be distributed, like Argument Blog-
ging, in which JavaScript code is placed on blogs to
link back to a server which provides access to a larger
conversation.

Federation is an exciting direction: Argunet [154]
uses an open source federation system for sharing ar-
gument maps from a desktop tool®. Uses can run their
own server or use a public server, Argunet.org™, which
allows authors to make maps public or restrict viewing
and/or editing to a specified group.

These mechanisms also impact the privacy of a
system—whether work can be saved privately, used col-
laboratively with a small group, or shared publicly
with the world.

9.12. Annotation

Annotating materials or commenting on existing
discussions can be an important way to interact on
the Social Web. Annotation can also be used to clas-
sify messages. For instance, Hypernews™ [21] asks
users to indicate what kind of message they are post-

 

http: //www.argunet.org/editor/

Snttp://www.argunet.org/debates/

“http: //www.hypernews.org/HyperNews/get/
hypernews/reading.html
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 29

ing (None, Question, Note, Warning, Feedback, Idea,
More, News, Ok, Sad, Angry, Agree, Disagree).

Videolyzer® [50] provides an integrated discussion
forum for annotating and challenging the claims a
video makes. Segments likely to be of interest are iden-
tified ahead of time by processing both the transcript
and the video.

Annotation has also been treated in from an argu-
mentation perspective in the research of Cabanac et
al., who study social validation of argumentative de-
bates through collective annotations [28].

9.13. Incremental Formalization

With incremental formalization, representations are
useful before they are fully interpretable by the com-
puter. Incremental formalization can be helpful since
people find it difficult to make structure, content, or
procedures explicit [159]. As the user’s understanding
(or goals) change, some systems facilitate systematic
additions or changes.

With Argunet, arguments can be quickly sketched
or reconstructed as premises and conclusions, support-
ing incremental formalization.

CoPe_it! transforms the user-created informal spa-
tial hypertext view (Figure 39(a) on page ix) into an
issue chart (Figure 39(b) on page ix) according to rules
shown in Figure 39(c) on page ix). Users can also cus-
tomize the transformation rules.

9.14. Populating Argumentative Knowledge Bases
From User Input

Other approaches are also iterative, similar to incre-
mental formalization but focusing specifically on the
input phase. For instance, user input may be processed,
and the output presented to the user, who can then cor-
rect it.

Trellis introduced a language processing technique
called “Annotation Canonicalization through Expres-
sion synthesis" [23], which applied an ontology to a
user-supplied sentence, checked the computer’s ontol-
ogy application by presenting a paraphrase to the user,
and solicited additions to the ontology from unknown
or misunderstood words.

Controlled natural languages, which adopt a more
restrictive grammar and vocabulary in order to facili-
tate parsing, have also been used to take in informa-
tion, formalizing it for reasoning. For instance, Wyner

 

Shttp://videolyzer.com/

et al. [206] propose using a controlled natural lan-
guage called Attempto Controlled English [46] for
high-stakes argumentative discussions, in order to gen-
erate a first-order-logic representation of the discus-
sion.

Dispute Finder® [53,54] provides just-in-time in-
formation, alerting users when information they read
is disputed, based on its database of disputed claims.
This relies on a disputes database which was first pop-
ulated by hand-annotation by activists (interested in in-
forming or convincing others) and then extended al-
gorithmically. The algorithm, which can be applied on
the Web at large, uses a set of 54 patterns to identify
possible disputed claims.

9.15. Mixed Initiative

Another possibility is to use Mixed Initiative sys-
tems, wherein the actions of both humans and ma-
chines are important. Online Visualisation of Argu-
ment (OVA) is part of a pipeline of argumentation
tools [168] which starts to bridge the gap between
human-oriented argumentation tools and calculation-
based agent argumentation. Mixed initiative discus-
sions are enabled by the argument maps created by
OVA or any other AIF-based tool. Thus, instead of rep-
resenting one’s point of view countless times in a fo-
rum or FAQ, it would be possible to delegate these
conversations to a machine agent using an underly-
ing argument map, as prototypes like MAgtALO®
[145,202] and the Google Wave discussion bot Arvina
show.

9.16. Search

Semantic search focuses not on mere keyword
matches but on retrieving structured data, such as
whether an opinion is argued for or against. Seman-
tic search is possible with several tools. ArgDF® uses
the AIF-RDF ontology described above [139,138,212]
and Sesame RDF”. In ArgDF, it is possible to display
all the arguments in which a claim is involved (e.g.
where it is used as a conclusion or as a premise) or all
the arguments using, say, the Argument from Expert
Opinion reasoning scheme.

 

Snttp://ennals.org/rob/disputefinder.html

http ://ova.computing.dundee.ac.uk

Shttp: //www.arg.dundee.ac.uk/?page_id=61

nttp://argdf.org/

Various other tools tools export AIF without directly imple-
menting semantic search.
30 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

DiscourseDB’! uses Semantic MediaWiki [95] with
the SemanticForms” extension. This makes it possi-
ble to list all commentary written by particular person,
published in a particular venue, and so forth. Further,
since items indicate the position they take on a topic,
DiscourseDB can list all commentary for or against
a given position. When a topic has multiple positions
(e.g. Darfur’), DiscourseDB is especially helpful in
summarizing the discussion. Semantic search uses a
simple syntax: for instance, on the Darfur conflict is-
sue, to search for commentary opposing the position
that the U.N. should send peacekeepers, this code is
used: [fis against::Darfur conflict / United Nations
should send peacekeepers]]. Since the results are al-
ready displayed on summary pages, most end users
would not need to create or modify queries, but Dis-
courseDB’s semantic search is a powerful tool for cre-
ating summaries.

9.17. Reasoning and Querying

As previously mentioned, Attempto Controlled
English can generate first-order-logic representations,
which allow inference and consistency-checking, and
can be translated into OWL and RuleML [58]. Mean-
while, Open Vocabulary Executable English can be
used for simple reasoning in the Internet Business
Logic System”.

Parmenides” [32,33,34] is a structured survey tool
for gathering public opinion on a proposal. Based on
argument schemes and critical questions from argu-
mentation theory, Parmenides can pinpoint the source
of the disagreement, by having participants respond to
a series of questions. At the end of the survey, users
are offered the choice of submitting an alternative pro-
posal, and are shown the answers they chose. Admin-
istrators can then analyze the group’s responses, which
are displayed in graphical argumentation frameworks
[51].

More advanced reasoning and querying is enabled
by Avicenna, an OWL-based argumentation system
on the Web which uses Jena [31], ARQ”, and Pel-
let [167]. Since OWL supports inference over transi-

 

Mhttp://discoursedb.org/

Pyttp://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:
Semantic_Forms

Bhttp: //discoursedb.org/wiki/Darfur_
conflict

http://www. reengineeringllc.com/

Bhtetp://egi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~parmenides/

Mhttp://jena.sourceforge .net/ARQ/

tive properties, Avicenna can support argument chain-
ing, such as retrieving all arguments that directly or in-
directly support a given conclusion. Avicenna is also
used to infer the classification hierarchy of argument
schemes: for example, an appeal to expert opinion is a
specialization of an argument from position to know.

10. Discussion & Conclusion

We have reviewed argumentation theory, existing
ontologies with argumentative aspects, and Web tools
for argumentation. We now discuss three main gaps
based on our observations. First, the ontologies given
need further adaptation to meet the existing variety
of social tools and purpose. In particular, arguing is
a social activity. The varieties of argument tools on
the Social Web need distinct types of interface support
and social engineering. The remaining question is what
appropriate Social Web ontologies for argumentation
would be. Rather than a single ontology, we envision
modular, interoperable components.

10.1. Arguing is a Social Activity

As argumentation scholars have long realized, hu-
mans argue for a variety of reasons, not always to solve
“wicked problems". Rather, arguing is a social activ-
ity people may use to position and establish them-
selves. This kind of arguing is important in the Social
Web, where people play by arguing such as with Con-
vinceMe’s the ‘King of the Hill’ game, or create net-
works of friends and enemies, such as on Riled Up!
and Create Debate. Arguing can also be used to con-
nect people such as on Debate.org. Ontologies for the
Social Semantic Web will need to respect these social
aspects, and may need to incorporate emotive indica-
tors such as the heat of the debate as well as the manner
in which the outcome will affect the participants.

The notion of debate, where two parties face off, is
also well-represented in existing social tools. Debate
may allow individuals to show their expertise, to find
the best arguments, or simply to practice their rhetor-
ical skills. Debate topics may be reused, for ongoing
issues with two or more defendable positions, espe-
cially when a topic is controversial. This suggests two
opportunities. First of all, future Social Semantic Web
prototype tools for sensemaking and argument map-
ping could be tested with for argumentation for some
common debate topic in order to find a large audience
of potential evaluators. Second, providing meaningful
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 31

ways to discover new debate topics, and potentially
record and share the outcome of these debates, could
be helpful. Frequent debaters may also provide an in-
teresting class of users since we might expect them to
be more familiar with fallacies and argument diagram-
ming, making them potentially more savvy about ar-
gumentation schemes and similar abstractions.

10.2. Current Use

While argumentation support has become more
mainstream, it is still a niche. While there is a desire
for public discussion systems, especially in areas such
as e-government, social discussion systems and social
networks are driven by network effects (e.g. you are
persuaded to use them by the ability to communicate
with your friends and colleagues) and by ease of use.
Argumentative elements in generic social media tools
are very basic: Facebook and Google Plus use ‘Like’
and ‘+1’ buttons, which imply a semantics of agree-
ment; YouTube adds a ‘dislike’ button, and flagging
posts for moderation (e.g. on Craigslist) or downvoting
posts (e.g. on StackOverflow or Reddit) also implies
dislike.

With existing systems, discussed in the Appendix,
there is a continuum from those with little use to those
with wide use. Some (non-research) sites have few
users and seem to have been abandoned. Some re-
search prototypes are not accessible at all (and have
been discussed based on papers and screenshots).
Other research prototypes are available, and some
seem to have users. Some are widely (or at least some-
what) used — showing (perhaps) what’s needed to build
a Social Web infrastructure for argumentation.

Argumentation support has not yet moved firmly
from the academic lab, into the mainstream. While dis-
cussion is widespread, argumentation needs are often
specific to the reasoning schemes used — which vary
by discipline and area. Such constraints simplify the
reasoning process for humans as well as for argumen-
tation support. Further, in dialogue, most argumenta-
tion happens informally: we can count on our conver-
sational partners to indicate what is missing and to de-
mand that we explain what is unclear to them. It is
difficult to systematically indicate assumptions and to
make reasoning explicit; while this is needed for ideal
reasoning support, it is not feasible or reasonable to ex-
pect in everyday discourse. This leads into a discussion
of usability.

Usability needs depend on the task at hand and the
target audience. Tools for in-depth analysis by experts

can be more complex and involved than those for ca-
sual use by the general public. E-government and de-
liberation tools have the strictest usability needs for
this reason.

10.3. Bridging the Social Web and the Semantic Web
to Manifest the World Wide Argument Web

To conclude, we discuss the obstacles to manifesting
the Social Semantic Argumentation Web, along with a
research agenda.

10.3.1. Problems

Despite candidate technical architectures for a World
Wide Argument Web, the WWAW is not yet viable on
the Social Web at large. We notice several interrelated
obstacles: first, the existing ontologies are not meant
for integrating wide-scale informal discussion; second,
current approaches to supporting argumentation gen-
erally require substantial human effort; and third, de-
termining the appropriate uses and re-uses for social
media posts depends on their context (e.g. the type of
discourse).

First, the very informality of social media can make
discussions more difficult to integrate. Argumentation
is used in many contexts and while formal argumen-
tation can be represented with ontologies such as AIF,
argumentation on the Social Web can be quite infor-
mal, with missing premises and unexpressed argument
schemes. While human analysis can sometimes bridge
the gap between AIF and the Social Web, (facilitated
for instance by tools such as OVA, Section A.29, page
xiii), more scalable solutions are needed. Several ap-
proaches will be needed to more routinely express the
existing argumentation on the Social Semantic Web.

Second, most current approaches to supporting ar-
gumentation still require substantial human effort;
little automatic processing is available. Issues and
stances can be categorized by hand, mapped and ana-
lyzed, or voted up and down. Tools for certain tasks—
situational analysis, argumentation reconstruction, and
argument mapping—are highly developed. These tools
have become, while not mainstream, widely accepted
for certain communities. The value of spatial hypertext
visualization systems cannot be discounted, and some
automation does exist: leveraging human-devised ma-
trices using Bayesian networks (in more advanced ver-
sions of ACH tools like Competing Hypotheses), or
summarizing human-answered surveys with argumen-
tation frameworks (Parmenides). Yet since these value-
added tools still require substantial human effort to en-
32 Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

ter information in particular formats, their very use is
an encouraging sign that some forms of argumentation
support would be beneficial.

Third, context is important for integrating conversa-
tions and claims. One strength of the Semantic Web is
in bringing conversations together; this has been very
powerful for the Social Semantic Web in general. Yet
the rhetorical effect of an argument depends on certain
contextual information, such as the surrounding con-
versation, its participants, and the medium. Extract-
ing and summarizing conversations without this con-
text has risks (i.e. potentially presenting misleading or
overstated arguments).

10.3.2. Research Agenda

To overcome these obstacles and manifest the So-
cial Semantic Argumentation Web, we see a need for
various approaches. First, we need ontologies suitable
for representing informal Social Web arguments, and
to map to these ontologies. Second, to address and re-
duce the human effort required we also need to moti-
vate participation, and find ways to infer argumenta-
tive relationships. Third, we need to further investigate
context.

First, we need ontologies that map between the
social world and the argumentative world. A modu-
lar approach will be needed, reusing existing work,
both in domain knowledge and in Social Web mod-
eling, for instance by importing existing ontologies
(particularly SIOC). Maximal benefit from a Social
Web ontology for argumentation will come from align-
ing and crosswalking to popular ontologies (especially
AIF). Many tools can already output AIF, and analyst-
oriented tools can be brought onto the Argument Web
with comparatively little effort. Motivated users and
defined argumentation schemes ease this process.

Mapping to these ontologies will also leveraging the
existing human effort already used in argumentation
tools. SEAS, for example, already uses argument tem-
plating. Such templates appear to be specialized ar-
gument schemes, which could be expressed in shared
repositories and even classified (for instance using
OWL as Avicenna does). Once the argument schemes
can be referenced, SEAS might provide another source
of AIF data, as well as point to further enrichment
needed. The ACH process underlying Competing Hy-
potheses seems to use a narrower set of reasoning; its
data, similarly, might be encompassed by understand-
ing and expressing the ACH argument scheme. The an-
alyst community is also a good place to start with in-
terface interventions such as using Controlled Natural

Language (CNL); whereas on the general Social Web,
CNL would restrict input, in analysis tools, CNL might
open the vocabulary.

Second, to further address the human effort re-
quired, we need to motivate wide-scale participation
and improve automatic argument detection. To encour-
age ongoing human effort, it would be helpful to create
a virtuous cycle—-by which people benefit from the Ar-
gument Web, thereby motivating increased participa-
tion. Understanding the niches filled by existing tools,
and whether these needs could be fulfilled better by
a larger Argument Web, would help in this regard.
For instance, while abstract argument schemes may
not be well understood by users, Parmenides shows
that stepwise processes based on these schemes can
be powerful. Opening up the analysis tools, so that a
group could view aggregate responses, would take Par-
menides to a new level of collaboration. While Par-
menides focuses on gathering multiple responses on
the same set of issues, a different approach would be
to crowdsource work based on an argument scheme.
Many groups already do this informally with check-
lists and procedures, for instance in Wikipedia’s article
promotion process. Providing templates where users
could indicate which critical questions they have asked
and answered, and at what point in time, might help
to distribute and share this work, while making the un-
derlying process more transparent.

Automatic detection of arguments might help fur-
ther bootstrapping the existing Social Web into the Ar-
gument Web. In the scholarly communication and le-
gal fields, argument detection relies on rhetorical fea-
tures. Argumentative markers would also help in mod-
ifying these argument detection approaches for use on
the Social Web. Analyzing existing Social Web cor-
puses, such as DisputeFinder’s claims database and the
Discussion Fora from the Aracaria corpus may help in
determining such markers. Various corpus-processing
techniques and approaches may be useful for detecting
argumentation, which shares rhetorical features with
other sorts of speech. Linguistic pragmatics dominate
in much argumentation, so one form of progress would
be to find unassailable features which mark argumen-
tative contexts on the Social Web. Relevant approaches
may come from opinion mining [124], question an-
swering and explanation [119], contradiction detection
[149], controversy detection [72], persuasion detection
[211,8], stance detection [188] and automatically typ-
ing links [45].

Third, we need to investigate how to preserve the
thetorical effect of an argument even when it is di-
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 33

vorced from its original context. Some aspects of con-
text are straightforward: for instance, items can be con-
fusing or non-sensical when stripped of context. The
canonical example from metadata scholars is the “on
a horse” [204] problem: in the context of a Theodore
Roosevelt collection, the description “on a horse" ad-
equately describes a photo; yet outside of that context
it is unclear and diffuse. Other contextual factors in-
clude the type of argumentative discourse. The vari-
ous types of argumentative discourse, shown in Fig-
ure 4 on page 7, vary in the amount of interest and
value they generate, outside the immediate context of
the discussion. Eristic dialogue, of personal conflicts,
for instance, is generally not worth reusing (though it
could be used to establish, for instance, who started an
argument, or that a dyad should avoid further discus-
sions). Discovery dialogue, on the other hand, which
seeks to find and defend a hypothesis, can be useful
both for understanding the process undertaken and the
outcome.

Support may also depend in part by who reuses
discussions—the participants, outside parties, or both—
and how much support they need at various points in
time. Reviews, for instance, are mainly written for an
external audience. Blog and microblog posts may be
read by others but also searched by the author as a
form of externalized memory. There may also be a
temporal component: standards bodies use their own
discussions in order to make decisions, but after the
fact, these discussions may be of considerable interest
to non-participants trying to understand why a partic-
ular decision was taken. The decision-making associ-
ated with discussions may be a particular point where
support is needed. Decisions can be taken by groups
(e.g. standards bodies) or by individuals (e.g. from re-
views) and may depend on a centralized discussion or
widely distributed pieces of information.

Overall, there is significant potential for support-
ing argumentation on the Social Semantic Web, but a
large amount of work remains to be done, in creat-
ing ontologies, easing human annotation of arguments,
improving techniques for detecting and mining argu-
mentation, and in marking the context, pragmatics,
and provenance of dialogues. Given the vast amount
of commentary on the social web — much of it argu-
mentative, persuasive, or opinionated — there is a great
need for further research and technical developments
to search and organize these discussions with semantic
web technologies.

Acknowledgements

This work was supported by Science Foundation
Ireland under Grant No. SFI/09/CE/11380 (Lion2).
We are grateful for the extensive comments of the
reviewers, Iyad Rahwan, Simon Buckingham Shum,
and Fouad Zablith. Thanks also to Agnes Sandor for
her comments which have prompted further clarifica-
tions and furthered our thinking. The re-revision of
this paper also benefited significantly from conversa-
tions with and feedback from Katie Atkinson, Trevor
Bench-Capon, and Adam Wyner, thanks to a visit to
the University of Liverpool sponsored by the COST
Action ICO801 on Agreement Technologies, STSM
1868.

References

[1] RDF Vocabulary Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema.
W3C Recommendation 10 February 2004, World Wide
Web Consortium, 2004. http://www.w3.org/TR/
rdf-schema/.

[2] SPARQL query language for RDF. W3C Recommenda-
tion 15 January 2008, World Wide Web Consortium, 2008.
http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-spargl-query.

[3] OWL 2 Web Ontology Language: Document Overview.

W3C Recommendation 27 October 2009, World Wide

Web Consortium, 2009. http://www.w3.org/TR/

owl2-overview/.

Mark Aakhus. Pragmatic Web as communication design

practice. In PragWeb 2006. Proceedings of the First Inter-

national Conference on the Pragmatic Web 21-23 September

2006 Stuttgart, Germany. Ges. fiir Informatik, Bonn, 2006.

Mark Aakhus and Miriam Greenfeld Benovitz. Argument re-

construction and socio-technical facilitation of large scale ar-

gumentation. In Proceedings of the 3rd International Confer-
ence on the Pragmatic Web: Innovating the Interactive Soci-

ety, pages 77-81, 2008.

Agnes Sandor. Using the author’s comments for knowledge

discovery. In Semaine de la connaissance, Atelier texte et

connaissance, Nantes, France, 2006.

Vincent Aleven and Kevin D. Ashley. Evaluating a learning

environment for case-based argumentation skills. In Proceed-

ings of the 6th international conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence and Law, ICAIL 1997, pages 170-179, New York, NY,

USA, 1997.

Pranav Anand, Joseph King, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Earl Wag-

ner, Craig Martell, Doug Oard, and Philip Resnik. Believe

me-—we can do this! Annotating persuasive acts in blog text.

In AAAI Workshop on Computational Models of Natural Ar-

gument at the Twenty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artificial In-

telligence, 2011.

[9] M.A. Angrosh, Stephen Cranefield, and Nigel Stanger.
Ontology-based modelling of related work sections in re-
search articles: Using CRFs for developing semantic data
based. information retrieval systems. In iSemantics 2010,
2010.

[4

[5

[6

[7

[8
34

[10]

Qi

[12]

[13]

[14]

[15]

[16]

117)

[18]

[19]

[20]
[21]

[22]

[23]

[24]

[25]

[26]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

Anupriya Ankolekar, Markus Krétzsch, Duc Thanh Tran, and
Denny Vrandecic. The two cultures: Mashing up Web 2.0 and
the Semantic Web. Journal of Web Semantics, 6(1):70-75,
2008.

Kevin D. Ashley. Modeling legal arguments: Reasoning with
cases and hypotheticals. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA,
1991.

Kevin D. Ashley and Edwina L. Rissland. But, see, accord:
Generating blue book citations in HYPO. In Proceedings of
the Ist International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and
law, pages 67-74, 1987.

Katie Atkinson, Trevor J. M. Bench-Capon, and Doug Wal-
ton. Distinctive features of persuasion and deliberation dia-
logues. Argument & Computation, 2012. in press.

Trevor J. M. Bench-Capon. Specification and implementa-
tion of Toulmin dialogue game. In Proceedings of JURIX,
volume 98, pages 5-20, 1998.

Trevor J. M. Bench-Capon. Persuasion in practical argument
using Value-based Argumentation Frameworks. Journal of
Logic and Computation, 13(3):429-448, 2003.

Trevor J. M. Bench-Capon and Edwina L. Rissland. Back to
the future: Dimensions revisited. In Proceedings of JURIX
2001, 2001.

Neil Benn, Simon Buckingham Shum, John Domingue, and
Clara Mancini. Ontological foundations for scholarly debate
mapping technology. In Second International Conference
on Computational Models of Argument (COMMA ’08), May
2008.

Tim Berners-Lee. Linked Data. Design issues for the world
wide web, World Wide Web Consortium, 2006. http://
www.w3.org/DesignIssues/LinkedData.html.
Tim Berners-Lee and Mark Fischetti. Weaving the Web: The
Original Design and Ultimate Destiny of the World Wide Web
by its Inventor. Harper Collins Publishers, New York, 1999.
Tim Berners-Lee, James A. Hendler, and Ora Lassila. The
Semantic Web. Scientific American, 284(5):3443, 2001.
David Alan Black. Introducing HyperNews. Linux Journal,
(27), July 1996.

Elizabeth Black and Anthony Hunter. Using enthymemes in
an inquiry dialogue system. In Proceedings of the 7th interna-
tional joint conference on Autonomous agents and multiagent
systems-Volume 1, pages 437-444. International Foundation
for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2008.

Jim Blythe and Yolanda Gil. Incremental formalization of
document annotations through ontology-based paraphrasing.
In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on World
Wide Web, pages 455-461, 2004.

Stefano Bocconi, Frank Nack, and Lynda Hardman. Sup-
porting the generation of argument structure within video se-
quences. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM conference on Hy-
pertext and hypermedia, pages 75-84, 2005.

David Braybrooke. Introduction to special issue of argumen-
tation originating in a conference at The University of Texas
at Austin. Argumentation, 17(4):361-363, 2003.

John G. Breslin, Andreas Harth, Uldis Bojars, and Stefan
Decker. Towards Semantically-Interlinked Online Commu-
nities. In The Semantic Web: Research and Applications,
Proceedings of the second European Semantic Web Confer-
ence (ESWC ’05), number 3532 in LNCS, pages 500-514.
Springer, 2005.

[27]

[28]

[29]

[30]

[31]

[32]

[33]

[34]

[35]

[36]

[37]

[38]

[39]

[40]

[41]

[42]

[43]

John G. Breslin, Alexandre Passant, and Stefan Decker. The
Social Semantic Web. Springer, 2009.

Guillaume Cabanac, Max Chevalier, Claude Chrisment, and
Christine Julien. Social validation of collective annotations:
Definition and experiment. Journal of the American Soci-
ety for Information Science and Technology, 61(2):27 1-287,
2010.

Daniela V. Carbogim, David Robertson, and John Lee.
Argument-based applications to knowledge engineering. The
Knowledge Engineering Review, 15(2):119-149, 2000.
Jeremy J. Carroll, Christian Bizer, Patrick Hayes, and Patrick
Stickler. Named graphs, provenance and trust. In Proceed-
ings of the 14th International Conference on World Wide Web,
2004.

Jeremy J. Carroll, Ian Dickinson, Chris Dollin, Dave
Reynolds, Andy Seaborne, and Kevin Wilkinson. Jena. In
Proceedings of the 13th international World Wide Web con-
ference - Alternate track papers & posters - WWW Alt. ’04,
page 74, 2004.

Dan Cartwright and Katie Atkinson. Political engagement
through tools for argumentation. In Computational models
of argument: Proceedings of COMMA 2008, pages 116-127.
IOS Press, 2008.

Dan Cartwright and Katie Atkinson. Using computational ar-
gumentation to support e-participation. [EEE Intelligent Sys-
tems, 24(5):42-52, 2009.

Dan Cartwright, Katie Atkinson, and Trevor Bench-Capon.
Supporting argument in e-democracy. In Electronic Gov-
ernment: Third International Electronic Democracy (EDEM
2009), pages 151-160, 2009.

Daniel Robert Cartwright. Digital Decision-Making: Using
Computational Argumentation to Support Democratic Pro-
cesses. PhD thesis, University of Liverpool, 6 2011.
Alexander Garcia Castro, Angela Norena, Andres Betancourt,
and Mark A. Ragan. Cognitive support for an argumentative
structure during the ontology development process. In Pro-
ceedings of the 9th International Protégé Conference, Stan-
ford, California, July 2006.

Andy R. Cavagnetto. Argument to foster scientific literacy.
Review of Educational Research, 80(3):336-371, 2010.
Steve Cayzer. Semantic blogging and decentralized knowl-
edge management. Communications of the ACM, 47(12):47-
52, 2004.

Hsinchun Chen. AI, e-government, and politics 2.0. [EEE
Intelligent Systems, 24(5):64-86, 2009.

Timothy Chklovski, Yolanda Gil, Varun Ratnakar, and John
Lee. TRELLIS: supporting decision making via argumenta-
tion in the Semantic Web. In Proceedings of the Second In-
ternational Semantic Web Conference, October 2003.
Timothy Chklovski, Varun Ratnakar, and Yolanda Gil. User
interfaces with Semi-Formal representations: a study of de-
signing argumentation structures. In Proceedings of the
10th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces,
pages 130-136, 2005.

Paolo Ciccarese. Scientific Discourse Relationships Ontol-
ogy Specification. Technical report, Massachusetts General
Hospital, December 2008.

Paolo Ciccarese, Marco Ocana, Sudeshna Das, and Tim
Clark. AO: an open Annotation Ontology for science on the
Web. In Bio-Ontologies 2010, 2010.
[44]

[45]

[46]

[47]

[48]

[49]

[50]

[51]

[52]

[53]

[54]

[55]

[56]

[57]

[58]

[59]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 35

Paolo Ciccarese, Elizabeth Wu, Gwen Wong, Marco Ocana,
June Kinoshita, Alan Ruttenberg, and Tim Clark. The SWAN
biomedical discourse ontology. Journal of Biomedical Infor-
matics, 41(5):739-751, October 2008.

Chip Cleary and Ray Bareiss. Practical methods for automat-
ically generating typed links. In Proceedings of the Seventh
ACM Conference on Hypertext, pages 31-41, 1996.

Juri Luca De Coi, Norbert E Fuchs, Kaarel Kaljurand, and
Tobias Kuhn. Controlled english for reasoning on the Seman-
tic Web. In Semantic Techniques for the Web-The REWERSE
Perspective, volume 5500 of Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-
ence, pages 276-308. Springer, 2009.

Jeffrey Conklin. Dialogue Mapping: Building Shared Under-
standing of Wicked Problems. John Wiley and Sons, Ltd.,
2005.

Sudeshna Das, Michael Rogan, Holli Kawadler, Samuel Brin,
Stéphane Corlosquet, and Tim Clark. PD Online: A case
study in scientific collaboration on the Web. In Workshop on
the Future of the Web for Collaborative Science, 19th Inter-
national World Wide Web Conference, 2010.

Aldo de Moor and Mark Aakhus. Argumentation support:
From technologies to tools. Communications of the ACM,
49(3):93-98, 2006.

Nicholas Diakopoulos, Sergio Goldenberg, and Irfan Essa.
Videolyzer: quality analysis of online informational video for
bloggers and journalists. In Proceedings of the 27th Interna-
tional Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems,
pages 799-808, 2009.

Phan Minh Dung. On the acceptability of arguments and its
fundamental role in nonmonotonic reasoning, logic program-
ming and n-person games. Artificial Intelligence, 77(2):321-
357, 1995.

Paul E. Dunne, Sylvie Doutre, and Trevor J. M. Bench-Capon.
Discovering inconsistency through examination dialogues. In
Leslie Pack Kaelbling and Alessandro Saffiotti, editors, L/-
CAI, pages 1680-1681. Professional Book Center, 2005.
Rob Emnals, Dan Byler, John Mark Agosta, and Barboara
Rosario. What is disputed on the Web? In WWW 2010, 2010.
Rob Ennals, Beth Trushkowsky, and John Mark Agosta.
Highlighting disputed claims on the Web. In WICOW 2010 at
WWW 2010, 2010.

Siamak Faridani, Ephrat Bitton, Kimiko Ryokai, and Ken
Goldberg. Opinion Space: A scalable tool for browsing on-
line comments. In Proceedings of the 28th International Con-
ference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, CHI 10,
pages 1175-1184, 2010.

Gerhard Fischer, Andreas C. Lemke, Raymond McCall, and
Anders I. Morch. Making argumentation serve design.
Human-Computer Interaction, 6(3):393-419, 1991.

James S. Fishkin. Democracy and Deliberation: New Direc-
tions for Democratic Reform. Yale University Press, 1991.
Norbert E. Fuchs, Kaarel Kaljurand, and Gerold Schneider.
Attempto controlled english meets the challenges of knowl-
edge representation, reasoning, interoperability and user in-
terfaces. In FLAIRS Conference, pages 664-669, 2006.
Marco Aurélio Gerosa, Mariano Gomes Pimentel, Hugo
Fuks, and Carlos Lucena. Analyzing discourse structure to
coordinate educational forums. In Intelligent Tutoring Sys-
tems 2004, number 3220 in LNCS, pages 23-36. Springer-
Verlag, 2004.

[60]

[61]

[62]

[63]
[64]

[65]

[66]

[67]

[68]

[69]

[70]

(71)

[72]

[73]

[74]

[75]

Yolanda Gil and Varun Ratnakar. TRELLIS: An Interac-
tive Tool for Capturing Information Analysis and Decision
Making. Internal Project Report, USC Information Sciences
Institute, 2001. http: //www.isi.edu/expect /web/
trellis/Trellis-—8-01.pdf.

Yolanda Gil and Varun Ratnakar. Trusting information
sources one citizen at a time. In Proceedings of the First Inter-
national Conference on The Semantic Web, pages 162-176.
Springer-Verlag, 2002.

Thomas F. Gordon, Henry Prakken, and Douglas Walton. The
Carneades model of argument and burden of proof. Artificial
Intelligence, 171(10-15):875-896, July 2007.

Wayne S. Grennan. Informal Logic: Issues and Techniques.
McGill Queens University Press, Montreal, Quebec, 1997.
H.P. Grice. Logic and conversation. In Syntax and semantics,
Vol.3, pages 41-58, 1975.

Leo Groarke. Informal logic. In Edward N. Zalta, editor, The
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Spring 2012 edition,
2012.

Claire Grover, Ben Hachey, and Chris Korycinski. Summaris-
ing legal texts: Sentential tense and argumentative roles. In
Proceedings of the Text Summarization Workshop at HLT-
NAACL 2003, Human Language Technology Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics Volume 5, pages 33-40, 2003.

Tudor Groza, Siegfried Handschuh, John G. Breslin, and Ste-
fan Decker. An abstract framework for modeling argumenta-
tion in virtual communities. International Journal of Virtual
Communities and Social Networking, 1:35—-47, 2009.

Tudor Groza, Siegfried Handschuh, Knud Mller, and Stefan
Decker. SALT - Semantically Annotated LaTeX for scien-
tific publications. In The Semantic Web: Research and Appli-
cations, Proceedings of ESWC 2007, LNCS, pages 518-532.
Springer, 2007.

Thomas R. Gruber. Towards principles for the design of on-
tologies used for knowledge sharing. International Journal
Human-Computer Studies, 43(5—6):907-928, 1995.

Thomas R. Gruber. Collective knowledge systems: Where
the Social Web meets the Semantic Web. Journal of Web
Semantics, 6(1):4-13, 2008.

Ali Giirkan, Luca Iandoli, Mark Klein, and Giuseppe Zollo.
Mediating debate through on-line large-scale argumenta-
tion: Evidence from the field.
180(19):3686—3702, 2010.

Karl Gyllstrom and Marie-Francine Moens. Clash of the
typings: finding controversies and children’s topics within
queries. In Proceedings of the 33rd European conference
on Advances in information retrieval, ECIR’ 11, pages 80-91.
Springer-Verlag, 2011.

Stella Heras. Case-Based Argumentation in Agent Societies.
PhD thesis, Universitat Politécnica de Valéncia, 2011.

Stella Heras, Katie Atkinson, Vicente Botti, Floriana Grasso,
Vicente Juliana, and Peter McBurney. Applying argumenta-
tion to enhance dialogues in social networks. In Proceedings
of the IJCAI Workshop on Computational Models of Natural
Argument (CMNA), 2010.

Stella Heras, Katie Atkinson, Vicente Botti, Floriana Grasso,
Vicente Juliana, and Peter McBurney. How argumentation
can enhance dialogues in social networks. In Computational
Models of Argument - Proceedings of COMMA 2010, number
216 in Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Applications,

Information Sciences,
36

[76]

[77]

[78]

[79]
[80]

[81]

[82]

[83]

[84]

[85]

[86]

[87]

[88]

[89]

[90]

[91]

[92]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

pages 267-274. IOS Press, 2010.

Stella Heras, Vicente Botti, and Vicente Juliana. On a Compu-
tational Argumentation Framework for Agent Societies, vol-
ume 6614 of LNCS, pages 123-140. Springer-Verlag New
York Inc, 2011.

Michael Hoffmann. Logical Argument Mapping
(LAM) - A Manual. Working paper, Georgia Tech,
2011. http: //www.spp.gatech.edu/faculty/

workingpapers/wp50.pdf.

Michael H. G. Hoffmann. Logical argument mapping:
A cognitive-change-based method for building common
ground. In Proceedings of the 2nd international conference
on Pragmatic Web, ICPW ’07, pages 41-47, 2007.

Ken Hyland. Metadiscourse. Continuum, 1st edition, 2005.
Joshua E. Introne. Adaptive Mediation in Groupware. PhD
thesis, Brandeis University, 2008.

Joshua E. Introne. Supporting group decisions by mediat-
ing deliberation to improve information pooling. In Proceed-
ings of the ACM 2009 International Conference on Support-
ing group work - GROUP ’09, page 189, 2009.

Alex P. J. Jarczyk, Peter Loffler, and Frank M. Shipman LL.
Design rationale for software engineering: a survey. In Pro-
ceedings of the Twenty-Fifth Hawaii International Confer-
ence on System Sciences, 1992, volume ii, pages 577-586,
1992.

Minwoo Jeong, Chin- Yew Lin, and Gary Geunbae Lee. Semi-
supervised speech act recognition in emails and forums.
In EMNLP: Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1250-1259,
2009.

David R. Karger and Dennis Quan. What would it mean to
blog on the Semantic Web? In The Semantic Web — ISWC
2004, pages 214-228. Springer, 2004.

Joel Katzav and Chris Reed. On argumentation schemes
and the natural classification of arguments. Argumentation,
18(2):239-259, June 2004.

Joel Katzav, Chris Reed, and Glenn Rowe. Argument research
corpus. In Proceedings of the 2003 Conference on Practical
Applications in Language and Computers, pages 229-239.
Peter Lang, 2003.

Paul A. Kirschner, Simon J. Buckingham Shum, and Chad S.
Carr. Visualizing Argumentation: Software tools for collab-
orative and educational sense-making. Springer, | edition,
2003.

Mark Klein. Achieving collective intelligence via large-scale
on-line argumentation. Technical Report Research Paper
No. 4647-07, CCI Working Paper No. 2007-001, MIT Sloan
School of Management, April.

Mark Klein. The MIT Collaboratorium: Enabling Effective
Large-Scale Deliberation for Complex Problems. SSRN eLi-
brary, (Research Paper No. 4679-08), December 2007.
Graham Klyne and Jeremy J. Carroll. Resource De-
scription Framework (RDF): Concepts and abstract syn-
tax. W3C Recommendation 10 February 2004, World
Wide Web Consortium, 2004. http: //www.w3.org/
TR/rdf-—concepts/.

Alistair Knott and Ted Sanders. The classification of coher-
ence relations and their linguistic markers: An exploration of
two languages. Journal of Pragmatics, 30:135—-175, 1998.
Kepa Korta and John Perry. Pragmatics. In Edward N. Zalta,
editor, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Summer

[93]

[94]

[95]

[96]

[97]

[98]

[99]

[100]

[101]

[102]

[103]

[104]

[105]

[106]

[107]

2011 edition, 2011.

Travis Kriplean, Jonathan Morgan, Deen Freelon, Alan Born-
ing, and Lance Bennett. Supporting reflective public thought
with Considerlt. In Proceedings of the ACM 2012 conference
on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, CSCW °12, pages
265-274, New York, NY, USA, 2012.

Travis Kriplean, Jonathan T. Morgan, Deen Freelon, Alan
Boring, and Lance Bennett. Considerlt: improving struc-
tured public deliberation. In Proceedings of the 2011 annual
conference extended abstracts on Human factors in comput-
ing systems, CHI EA 11, page 1831-1836, 2011.

Markus Krétzsch, Denny Vrandeci¢é, Max Vélkel, Heiko
Haller, and Rudi Studer. Semantic Wikipedia. Journal of Web
Semantics, 5(4):251-261, 2007.

Werner Kunz and Horst W.J. Rittel. Issues as elements of
information systems. Working Paper 131, Center for Plan-
ning and Development Research, University of California at
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 1970.

Christoph Lange. Semantic Web  Collabora-
tion on Semiformal Mathematical _ Knowledge.
Ph.D., Jacobs University, School of Engineering
and Science, Bremen, Germany, Germany, 2010.

https://svn.kwarc .info/repos/swim/doc/phd/phd.pdf.
Christoph Lange, Uldis Bojars, Tudor Groza, John G. Breslin,
and Siegfried Handschuh. Expressing argumentative discus-
sions in social media sites. In Proceedings of the ISWC2008
Workshop on Social Data on the Web (SDoW2008), October
2008.

Christoph Lange, Tuukka Hastrup, and Stephane Corlosquet.
Arguing on issues with mathematical knowledge items in
a semantic wiki. In LWA: Lernen, Wissensentdeckung und
Adaptivitdt, volume 448 of Technical Report, pages 41-48.
Department of Computer Science, University of Wiirzburg,
Germany, 2008.

Ioan Alfred Letia and Adrian Groza. Contextual exten-
sion with concept maps in the Argument Interchange For-
mat. In Argumentation in Multi-Agent Systems, volume 5384.
Springer, 2009.

Anna De Liddo and S. Buckingham Shum. Cohere: A proto-
type for contested collective intelligence. In Collective Intel-
ligence In Organizations - Toward a Research Agenda, 2010.
Claudia Lépea, Pablo Inostroza, Luiz Marcio Cysneiros, and
Hernan Astudillo. Visualization and comparison of architec-
ture rationale with Semantic Web technologies. The Journal
of Systems and Software, 82(8):1198—1210, 2009.

Rui Pedro Lourengo and Jo ao Paulo Costa. A note on democ-
racy and Group Support Systems concepts. In CISTI: 2010
Sth Iberian Conference on Information Systems and Tech-
nologies, pages 1-6, 2010.

John Lowrance, Ian Harrison, Andres Rodriguez, Eric Yeh,
Tom Boyce, Janet Murdock, Jerome Thomere, and Ken Mur-
ray. Template-based structured argumentation. In Knowledge
Cartography, Advanced Information and Knowledge Process-
ing, pages 307-334. Springer, 2008.

John D. Lowrance. Graphical manipulation of evidence in
structured arguments. Law, probability and risk, 6(1-4):225,
2007.

Ann Macintosh. Moving toward “Intelligent” policy develop-
ment? IEEE Intelligent Systems, 24(5):79-82, 2011.

Ann Macintosh, Thomas F. Gordon, and Alastair Renton.
Providing argument support for e-participation. Journal of
[108]

[109]

[110]

{111)
[112]

[113]

[114]

[115]

[116]

(117)

[118]

[119]

[120]

[121]

[122]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 37

Information Technology & Politics, 6(1):43-59, 2009.

Clara Mancini and Simon Buckingham shum. Cognitive Co-
herence Relations and hypertext: from cinematic patterns to
scholarly discourse. In Proceedings of the 12th ACM confer-
ence on Hypertext and Hypermedia, pages 165-174, Arhus,
Denmark, 2001.

Clara Mancini and Simon J. Buckingham Shum. Modelling
discourse in contested domains: A semiotic and cognitive
framework. International Journal of Human-Computer Stud-
tes, 64(11):1154-1171, November 2006.

William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson. Rhetorical Struc-
ture Theory: Toward a functional theory of text organization.
Text, 8(3):243-281, 1988.

Daniel Marcu. Building up rhetorical structure trees. In AAAL
96 Proceedings, 1996.

Daniel Marcu. The Theory and Practice of Discourse Parsing
and Summarization. The MIT Press, November 2000.

Peter McBurney and Simon Parsons. Dialogue games for
agent argumentation. Argumentation in Artificial Intelligence,
pages 261-280, 2009.

Helena M. Mentis, Paula M. Bach, Blaine Hoffman,
Mary Beth Rosson, and John M. Carroll. Development of de-
cision rationale in complex group decision making. In Pro-
ceedings of the 27th International Conference on Human Fac-
tors in Computing Systems, pages 1341-1350, 2009.

Raquel Mochales and Marie-Francine F. Moens. Argumen-
tation mining. Artificial Intelligence and Law, 19(1):1—-22,
2011.

Raquel Mochales Palau. Automatic detection and clas-
sification of argumentation in a legal case. PhD thesis,
K.U.Leuven, Faculty of Engineering Science, July 2011.
Moens, Marie-Francine and De Schreye, Daniel (supervi-
sors).

Raquel Mochales-Palau and Marie-Francine Moens. Auto-
matic argumentation detection and its role in law and the
Semantic Web. In Law, Ontologies and the Semantic Web
- Channelling the Legal Information Flood, volume 188 of
Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Applications, pages
115-129. IOS Press, 2009.

Sanjay Modgil and Jarred McGinnis. Towards characterising
argumentation based dialogue in the Argument Interchange
Format. In Argumentation in Multi-Agent Systems, volume
4946. Springer, 2008.

Bernard Moulin, Hengameh Irandoust, Micheline Bélanger,
and Gaélle Desbordes. Explanation and argumentation capa-
bilities: Towards the creation of more persuasive agents. Ar-
tificial Intelligence Review, 17:169-222, 2002.

Carlos Ches nevar, Jarred McGinnis, Sanjay Modgil, Iyad
Rahwan, Chris Reed, Guillermo Simari, Matthew South, Ger-
ard Vreeswijk, and Steven Willmott. Towards an Argument
Interchange Format.

21(4):293-316, 2006.
Susan E. Newman and Catherine C. Marshall. Pushing
Toulmin too far: Learning from an argument representa-
tion scheme. Technical Report Technical Report SSL-92-
45, Xerox PARC, 1992.  http://www.csdl.tamu.edu/ mar-
shall/toulmin.pdf.

Alexandra Okada, Simon J. Buckingham Shum, and Tony
Sherbome. Knowledge Cartography: Software Tools and
Mapping Techniques. Springer, 2008.

The Knowledge Engineering Review,

[123]

[124]

[125]

[126]

[127]

[128]

[129]

[130]

[131]

[132]

[133]

[134]

[135]

[136]

[137]

[138]

[139]

[140]

Tim O’Reilly. What Is Web 2.0: Design Patterns and Business
Models for the Next Generation of Software, 30 September
2005. http: //www.oreillynet.com/lpt/a/6228.
Bo Pang and Lillian Lee. Opinion mining and sentiment anal-
ysis. Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval, 2(1-
2):1-135, 2008.

Jack Park. Boundary infrastructures for IBIS federation: De-
sign rationale, implementation, and evaluation. Ph.D. The-
sis Proposal KMI-10-01, The Open University, Milton Keyes,
2010.

Philippe Pasquier, Iyad Rahwan, Frank Dignum, and Liz
Sonenberg. Argumentation and persuasion in the cogni-
tive coherence theory. In Proceedings of the 2006 confer-
ence on Computational Models of Argument: Proceedings
of COMMA 2006, pages 223-234, Amsterdam, The Nether-
lands, The Netherlands, 2006. IOS Press.

Alexandre Passant. Semantic Web Technologies for Enter-
prise 2.0. IOS Press, 2010.

Alexandre Passant, Paolo Ciccarese, John G. Breslin, and Tim
Clark. SWAN/SIOC: aligning scientific discourse representa-
tion and social semantics. In Proceedings of the Workshop on
Semantic Web Applications in Scientific Discourse (SWASD
2009), at (ISWC-2009), volume 523. CEUR-WS.org, 2009.
Chaim Perelman and Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca. The New
Rhetoric: A Treatise on Argumentation. University of Notre
Dame Press, June 1969.

Silvio Peroni and David Shotton. Fabio and cito: Ontologies
for describing bibliographic resources and citations. [EEE
Intelligent Systems, 2011. Preprint.

H. Sofia Pinto, Christoph Tempich, and Steffen Staab. DILI-
GENT: towards a fine-grained methodology for DIstributed,
loosely-controlled and evolvInG engingeering of oNTologies.
In Proceedings of the 16th European Conference on Artificial
Intelligence (ECAI 2004), August 22nd - 27th, pages 393—
397, August 2004.

Henry Prakken. Formal systems for persuasion dialogue. The
Knowledge Engineering Review, 21(2):163-188, 2006.
ESTRELLA Project. Deliverable 1.4: OWL ontology of basic
legal concepts (LKIF-Core). Deliverable IST-2004-027655,
University of Amsterdam, January 2007.

lyad Rahwan. Mass argumentation and the Semantic Web.
Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the World
Wide Web, 6(1):29-37, February 2008.

lyad Rahwan and Bita Banihashemi. Arguments in OWL: a
progress report. In Computational models of argument: Pro-
ceedings of COMMA 2008, pages 297-310. IOS Press, 2008.
lyad Rahwan, Bita Banihashemi, Chris Reed, Douglas Wal-
ton, and Sherief Abdallah. Representing and classifying ar-
guments on the semantic web. The Knowledge Engineering
Review, 26(04):487-511, 12 2011.

lyad Rahwan and Guillermo Simari. Argumentation in Artifi-
cial Intelligence. Springer, 2009.

lyad Rahwan, Fouad Zablith, and Chris Reed. Laying the
foundations for a World Wide Argument Web. Artificial In-
telligence, 171(10-15):897—-921, July 2007.

lyad Rahwan, Fouad Zablith, and Chris Reed. Towards large
scale argumentation support on the Semantic Web. In Pro-
ceedings of the 22nd national conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence - Volume 2, pages 1446-1451. AAAI Press, 2007.
Andrew Ravenscroft, Simon Wells, Musbah Sagar, and Chris
Reed. Mapping persuasive dialogue games onto argumen-
38

[141]

[142]

[143]

[144]

[145]

[146]

[147]

[148]

[149]

[150]

[151]

[152]

[153]

[154]

[155]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

tation structures. In Symposium on Persuasive Technology
& Digital Behaviour Intervention at AISB: Artificial Intelli-
gence and Simulation of Behaviour, April 2009.

Chris Reed. Representing dialogic argumentation.
Knowledge-Based Systems, 19(1):22-31, March 2006.

Chris Reed and Glenn Rowe. Araucaria: Software for argu-
ment analysis, diagramming and representation. /nternational
Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools, 13(4):961-979, 2004.
Chris Reed and Christopher W. Tindale. Dialectics, dialogue
and argumentation: An examination of Douglas Walton’s the-
ories of reasoning and argument. College Publications, Lon-
don, 2010.

Chris Reed, Douglas Walton, and Fabrizio Macagno. Argu-
ment diagramming in logic, law and Artificial Intelligence.
The Knowledge Engineering Review, 22(01):87-109, 2007.
Chris Reed and Simon Wells. Dialogical argument as an inter-
face to complex debates. [EEE Intelligent Systems, 22(6):60—
65, 2007.

Chris Reed, Simon Wells, Katarzyna Budzynska, and Joseph
Devereux. Building arguments with argumentation: the role
of illocutionary force in computation models of argument.
In Computational Models of Argument - Proceedings of
COMMA 2010, number 216 in Frontiers in Artificial Intelli-
gence and Applications, pages 415-426. IOS Press, 2010.
Chris Reed, Simon Wells, Joseph Devereux, and Glenn Rowe.
AIF+: dialogue in the Argument Interchange Format. In
Computational models of argument: Proceedings of COMMA
2008, pages 311-323. IOS Press, 2008.

Alan Ritter, Colin Cherry, and Bill Dolan. Unsupervised
modeling of Twitter conversations. In Proceedings of Hu-
man Language Technologies: The 11th Annual Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics, 2010.

Alan Ritter, Doug Downey, Stephen Soderland, and Oren Et-
zioni. It’s a contradiction—no, it’s not: a case study using
functional relations. In EMNLP:Proceedings of the Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, pages 11-20. Association for Computational Linguistics,
2008.

Glenn W. A. Rowe, Chris A. Reed, and Joel Katzav. Arau-
caria: Marking up argument. In European Conference on
Computing and Philosophy, 2003.

Matthias Samwald and Klaus-Peter Adlassnig. The bio-zen
plus ontology. Applied Ontology, 3(4):213-217, 2008.

Ted J.M. Sanders, Wilbert P.M. Spooren, and Leo Noordman.
Towards a taxonomy of coherence relations. Discourse Pro-
cesses, 15:1—35, 1992.

Oliver Scheuer, Frank Loll, Niels Pinkwart, and Bruce
McLaren. Computer-supported argumentation: A review of
the state of the art. International Journal of Computer-
Supported Collaborative Learning, 5(1):43—102, 2010.
David C. Schneider, Christian Voigt, and Gregor Betz.
ArguNet-a software tool for collaborative argumentation
analysis and research. In Proceedings of the LJCAI Workshop
on Computational Models of Natural Argument (CMNA),
2007.

Jodi Schneider, Alexandre Passant, and Stefan Decker. Dele-
tion discussions in Wikipedia: Decision factors and outcomes.
In 8th International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collabo-
ration, WikiSym 2012, 2012.

[156]

[157]

[158]

[159]

[160]

[161]

[162]

[163]

[164]

[165]

[166]

[167]

[168]

[169]

[170]

Daniel Schober, James Malone, and Robert Stevens.
Practical experiences in concurrent, collaborative ontol-
ogy building using Collaborative Protégé. In Pro-
ceedings of the International Conference on Biomedi-
cal Ontology, Buffalo, NY, 2009. Nature Precedings.
http://precedings.nature.com/documents/35 17/version/2.
Wolfgang Schuler and John B. Smith. Author’s argumenta-
tion assistant (AAA): a hypertext-based authoring tool for ar-
gumentative texts. In Hypertext: Concepts, systems and appli-
cations (Proceedings of the ECHT’90 European Conference
on Hypertext), pages 137-151. Cambridge University Press,
1992.

John R. Searle. Speech Acts. Cambridge University Press,
New York, 1969.

Frank M. Shipman and Catherine C. Marshall. Formality con-
sidered harmful: Experiences, emerging themes, and direc-
tions on the use of formal representations in interactive sys-
tems. Computer Supported Cooperative Work, 8(4):333-352,
December 1999.

David Shotton. CiTO, the citation typing ontology, and its use
for annotation of reference lists and visualization of citation
networks. In Bio-Ontologies 2009, a Special Interest Group
meeting at ISMB 2009, 2009.

David Shotton. CiTO, the citation typing ontology. Journal
of Biomedical Semantics, \(Supp1 1):S6, 2010.

Simon Buckingham Shum. Cohere: Towards web 2.0 argu-
mentation. In Computational models of argument: Proceed-
ings of COMMA 2008, volume 172 of Frontiers in Artificial
Intelligence and Applications. IOS Press, 2008.
Simon Buckingham Shum. AIF — use
Iraq debate. AIF 2.0 meeting contribution,
http://projects.kmi.open.ac.uk/hyperdiscourse/docs/AIF-
UseCase-v2.pdf, 2010.

Simon Buckingham Shum and Tamara Sumner. JIME: an
interactive journal for interactive media. First Monday, 6(2),
February 2001.

Simon J. Buckingham Shum. The roots of computer sup-
ported argument visualization.
tion: Software tools for collaborative and educational sense-
making, pages 3-21. Springer, 2003.

Simon J. Buckingham Shum, Victoria Uren, Gangmin Li,
Bertrand Sereno, and Clara Mancini. Modeling naturalistic
argumentation in research literatures: Representation and in-
teraction design issues. International Journal of Intelligent
Systems, 22(1):17-47, 2007.

Evren Sirin, Bijan Parsia, Bernardo Cuenca Grau, Aditya
Kalyanpur, and Yarden Katz. Pellet: A practical OWL-DL
reasoner. Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the
World Wide Web, 5(2):51—53, 2007.

Mark Snaith, Joseph Devereux, John Lawrence, and Chris
Reed. Pipelining argumentation technologies. In Computa-
tional Models of Argument - Proceedings of COMMA 2010,
number 216 in Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence and Appli-
cations. IOS Press, 2010.

Mark Snaith, John Lawrence, and Chris Reed. Mixed ini-
tiative argument in public deliberation. In Proceedings of
the Fourth International Conference on Online Deliberation,
2010.

M. South, G. Vreeswijk, and J. Fox. Dungine: A JAVA Dung
reasoner. In Proceeding of the 2008 conference on Computa-
tional Models of Argument (COMMA 2008), pages 360-368.

case:

In Visualizing Argumenta-
(171)

[172]

[173]

[174]

[175]

[176]

[177]

[178]

[179]

[180]

[181]

[182]

[183]

[184]

[185]

[186]

[187]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web 39

IOS Press, 2008.

Norbert A. Streitz, Jorg Hannemann, and Manfred Thiiring.
From ideas and arguments to hyperdocuments: Travelling
through activity spaces. In Proceedings of the second an-
nual ACM conference on Hypertext, HYPERTEXT ’89, pages
343-364, 1989.

Daniel D. Suthers. Empirical studies of the value of conceptu-
ally explicit notations in collaborative learning. In Knowledge
Cartography, Advanced Information and Knowledge Process-
ing, pages 1-24. Springer, 2008.

Maite Taboada and William C. Mann. Applications of Rhetor-
ical Structure Theory. Discourse Studies, 8(4):567-588, Au-
gust 2006.

Christoph Tempich, H. Sofia Pinto, York Sure, and Steffen
Staab. An argumentation ontology for DIstributed, loosely-
controlled and evolvInG engineering processes of oNTologies
(DILIGENT). In The Semantic Web: Research and Applica-
tions, pages 241-256. Springer, 2005.

Simone Teufel and Marc Moens. Summarizing scientific arti-
cles: Experiments with relevance and rhetorical status. Com-
putational Linguist., 28(4):409-445, 2002.

Paul Thagard. Explanatory coherence. Behavioral and Brain
Sciences, 12(3):435-502, 1989.

Terri Attwood Anita de Waard Tim Clark, Paolo Ciccarese
and Steve Pettifer. A round-trip to the annotation store: Open,
transferable semantic annotation of biomedical publications.
In Beyond the PDF workshop, University of California San
Diego, 2011.

Francesca Toni and Paolo Torroni. Bottom-up argumentation.
First International Workshop on the Theory and Applications
of Formal Argumentation, 2011.

Paolo Torroni, Federico Chesani, and Marco Gavanelli. Ar-
gumentation in the Semantic Web. IEEE Intelligent Systems,
22(6):66-74, 2007.

Stephen Edelston Toulmin. The Uses of Argument. University
Press, Cambridge [Eng.], 1958.

Douglas P. Twitchell, Mark Adkins, Jay F. Nunamaker Jr.,
and Judee K. Burgoon. Using speech act theory to model
conversations for automated classification and retrieval. In
(LAP’04):Proceedings of the 9th International Working Con-
ference on the Language-Action Perspective on Communica-
tion Modelling, pages 121-129, 2004.

Manolis Tzagarakis, Nikos Karousos, Nikos Karacapilidis,
and Dora Nousia. Unleashing argumentation support systems
on the Web: The case of CoPe_it! In Web Science 2009,
Athens, Greece, March 2009.

F. H van Eemeren, editor. Advances in Pragma-Dialectics.
SicSat/Vale Press, 2002.

Frans H. van Eemeren and Rob Grootendorst. Speech Acts
in Argumentative Discussions: A Theoretical Model for the
Analysis of Discussions Directed Toward Solving Conflicts of
Opinion. de Gruyter Mouton, June 1984.

Frans H. van Eemeren and Rob Grootendorst. Argumenta-
tion, Communication and Fallacies: A Pragma-Dialectical
Perspective. Erlbaum, 1992.

Frans H. van Eemeren and Rob Grootendorst. A systematic
theory of argumentation: the pragma-dialectical approach.
Cambridge University Press, 2004.

Frans H. van Eemeren, Rob Grootendorst, and Fran-
cisca Snoeck Henkemans. Argumentation: analysis, evalua-
tion, presentation. Erlbaum, 2002.

[188]

[189]

[190]

[191]

[192]

[193]

[194]

[195]

[196]

[197]

[198]

[199]

[200]

[201]

[202]

[203]

[204]

[205]

[206]

[207]

[208]

Marilyn A. Walker, Pranav Ananda, Rob Abbott, Jean E. Fox
Tree, Craig Martell, and Joseph King. That’s your evidence?:
Classifying stance in online political debate. Decision Sup-
port Systems, in press 2012.

Doug Walton, Katie Atkinson, Trevor Bench-Capon, Adam
Wyner, and Daniel Cartwright. Argumentation in the frame-
work of deliberation dialogue. Arguing Global Governance:
Agency, Lifeworld and Shared Reasoning, page 210, 2010.
Douglas Walton. Plausible argument in everyday conversa-
tion. SUNY Press, 1992.

Douglas Walton. Argumentation Schemes for Presumptive
Reasoning. Routledge, 1995.

Douglas Walton. How can logic best be applied to arguments?
Logic Journal of the IGPL, 5(4):603-614, July 1997.
Douglas Walton. Fundamentals of Critical Argumentation.
Cambridge University Press, October 2005.

Douglas Walton. Dialog Theory for Critical Argumentation.
John Benjamins, 2007.

Douglas Walton. Informal Logic: A Pragmatic Approach.
Cambridge University Press, 2nd edition, 2008.

Douglas Walton. Types of dialogue and burdens of proof.
In Computational Models of Argument - Proceedings of
COMMA 2010, number 216 in Frontiers in Artificial Intelli-
gence and Applications, pages 13-24. IOS Press, 2010.
Douglas Walton, Chris Reed, and Fabrizio Macagno. Argu-
mentation Schemes. Cambridge University Press, 1st edition,
August 2008.

Douglas N. Walton. Commitment in dialogue : basic concepts
of interpersonal reasoning. State University of New York
Press, Albany, 1995.

Barbara Warnick. Rhetoric Online: Persuasion and politics
on the World Wide Web. Peter Lang, 2007.

Bonnie Webber, Markus Egg, and Valia Kordoni. Discourse
structure and language technology. Natural Language Engi-
neering, pages 1-54, FirstView Article 2011.

Simon Wells, Colin Gourlay, and Chris Reed. Argument blog-
ging. In Proceedings of the IJCAI Workshop on Computa-
tional Models of Natural Argument (CMNA), 2009.

Simon Wells and Chris Reed. MAgtALO: An agent-based
system for persuasive online interaction. In AJSB 2008: Arti-
ficial Intelligence and Simulation of Behaviour, 2008.

Simon Wells and Chris Reed. A domain specific language for
describing diverse systems of dialogue. Journal of Applied
Logic, 2011. to appear.

Robin Wendler. The eye of the beholder: Challenges of image
description and access at harvard. In Metadata in Practice,
pages 51-69. ALA Editions, 2004.

Terry Winograd. A Language/Action perspective on the de-
sign of cooperative work. Human-Computer Interaction,
3(1):3-30, March 1987.

Adam Wyner, Tom Van Engers, and Kiavash Bahreini. From
policy-making statements to first-order logic. In Electronic
Government and the Information System Perspective, volume
6267 of LNCS, pages 47-61. Springer, 2010.

Adam Wyner, Raquel Mochales-Palau, Marie-Francine
Moens, and David Milward. Approaches to text mining ar-
guments from legal cases. In Semantic Processing of Legal
Texts, number 6036 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
pages 60-79. Springer, 2010.

Adam Wyner, Jodi Schneider, Katie Atkinson, and Trevor
Bench-Capon. Semi-automated argumentative analysis of on-
40

[209]

[210]

[211]

[212]

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

line product reviews. In Proceedings of the 2012 conference
on Computational Models of Argument (COMMA 2012).
Adam Wyner and Tom van Engers. A framework
for enriched, controlled on-line discussion forums for e-
government. In eGOV 2010, pages 1-11, 2010.

Ka-Ping Yee. Zest: Discussion mapping for mailing lists.
In Proceedings of the 2002 ACM conference on Computer-
Supported Cooperative Work, 2002.

J. Young, C. Martell, P. Anand, P. Ortiz, and H. T. Gilbert IV.
A microtext corpus for persuasion detection in dialog. In
Workshops at the Twenty-Fifth AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, 2011.

Fouad Zablith. ArgDF: Arguments on the Seman-
tic Web. Master’s, The British University in Dubai
Jointly with The University of Edinburgh, February 2007.
http://www.argdf.org/source/.
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web i

Appendix
A. Tools
A.l. List of social and Semantic Web tools considered

In this section we draw from our review of thirty-
seven online argumentation tools: AGORA: Partici-
pate - Deliberate, ArgDF, Arguehow, Argument Blog-
ging, Argumentum, Argumentations.com, Argunet,
Avicenna, bCisiveOnline, Belvedere, Cabanac’s an-
notation system, Climate CoLab, Cohere, Compet-
ing Hypotheses, Considerlt, ConvinceMe, CoPe_it!,
CreateDebate, Debate.org, Debategraph, Debatepe-
dia, Debatewise, DiscourseDB, Dispute Finder, Hyper-
news, Living Vote, MAgTALO, Opinion Space, Online
Visualisation of Arguments, Parmenides, PDOnline,
REASON, Riled Up!, SEAS, Trellis, TruthMapping,
and Videolyzer. For further details about our inclusion
criteria, see Section 9, page 21.

A.2. AGORA: Participate - Deliberate

Michael Hoffman’s system, AGORA: Participate
- Deliberate [78], uses Logical Argument Mapping
[77](Figure 24 on page ii), providing support for rep-
resenting deductively valid arguments, using one of
seven schemes: modus ponens; modus tollens; disjunc-
tive syllogism; not-both syllogism; conditional syllo-
gism; equivalence; and constructive dilemma. It relies
on concept mapping software called CmapTools’’.

A.3. ArgDF

ArgDF’® is a Semantic Web-based argumentation
system using the AIF-RDF ontology described above
[139,138,212]. ArgDF uses Sesame RDF for storage
and querying and Phesame for communicating with
the Sesame through PHP pages.

A.4. Arguehow

ArgueHow” (Figure 25) is a argument-based dis-
cussion board aimed at a general audience. Its purpose
is to help find the best points supporting a position.
Discussion points are sorted by votes for (“Creds’) and
against (‘Cruds’) them. ArgueHow has a unique way

 

™Mhttp://cmap.ihme.us/
Bhttp://argdf.org/
PMretp://arguehow.com/

of handling reputation: users start with a reputation of
50, which increases or decreases according to the votes
their points accrue. Votes are weighted: for instance,
points with 10 ‘cred’ or ‘crud’ votes change less in
response to further votes, and votes on users’ first 20
discussion points affect their reputation less than later
contributions, allowing them to learn the system.

HOW.

ajpssnt ior ad geist

login Seatbelt Laws

FOR

 
  

heer A thd

Fig. 25. Arguhow offers structured discussion.

A.5. Argument Blogging

The idea of argument blogging was proposed by
Wells, Gourlay and Reed [201] as a way to bring blogs
into the WWAW, based on standard Web technolo-
gies, and augmented by argument specific technolo-
gies. In addition to AIF, argument blogging relies on
the AIF Database (AIFDB) and Dialog Game Descrip-
tion Language (DGDL). AIFDB is a MySQL database
for storing AIF documents which can be serialized as
RDF and accessed via a RESTful Web service. DGDL
[140,203] is a grammar for describing the rules of dia-
logue games.

Argument blogging uses text from the current Web
as a departure point for the WWAW. When browsing
the Web, users select text and click a JavaScript book-
marklet, to indicate whether they will attack an infer-
ence, support or refute the selected text. This gener-
ates a fragment of embeddable JavaScript the user can
paste onto his/her blog. Once a blogger opts in to the
WWAW by adding JavaScript to a webpage, the page
displays a badge which links back to argument blog-
ging server, where the distributed dialog can be visual-
ized or exported as text.
@ wall protects
Israel from attacks
launched in Gaza

¢— therefore ——|

 

 

 
 
 
  

  

regarding protection
by a wall, the situation
in the West Bank would
be exactly the same as
in Gaza

  
 
    
 

   
     
        

  
 

therefore

 

the fact that there was not a single
successful attack into Israel from Gaza
is caused by the fact that there is

if there are terrorists who try
to destroy Israel in Gaza and in
the West Bank,
situation for Israel is the same
with regard to both places

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

although Gaza is "home to more terrorist organizations
<@—therefore— than the West Bank,” they did "not launch a single
| successful attack into Israel in three years of fighting."

 
  
   
     
 
 
 
 
  
 

  

objects

a wall around Gaza
there were more than 1000
rocket attacks from Gaza
against Israel since 2000

re
clarifies
and supports

  

although the situation is not

“exactly” the same, there

|¢— supports —) were more than 250 "terrorist
attacks entering Israel from

then the security

the West Bank since 2001"

Fig. 24. A sample LAM map, from [78].

Earlier work on semantic blogging predates the
WWAW but focused more attention on the visualiza-
tion of reply graphs of messages from multiple blogs
[84] or the possibilities for inference [38].

A.6. Argumentum

Argumentum® is an argument-based discussion site
aimed at airing discussions. Debaters add topics and
their arguments are colored to indicate the support-
ing (green) and opposing (red) arguments (Figure 26).
Comments, but not their replies, are similarly colored
to indicate agreement or disagreement. Users some-
times want to agree or disagree without leaving com-
ments; currently this leaves a default comment that
says “Type the reason why you oppose..."

Argumentum’s most unique feature is that users can
put their “2 cents" in literally: credibility, earned with
good arguments, is measured in ‘cents’ and can be
spent to influence a debate result. Users can also con-
tribute arguments without starting from the Argumen-
tum website, using bookmarklets*! or through Gmail
and Facebook*”. Further, loggers and publishers can
also contribute using Argumentum buttons or widgets.

 

http: //arg.umentum.com/

SInttp://arg.umentum.com/share

http: //arg.umentum.com/wiki/
more-ways-to-argue

Argumentun »......;

| Healthcare is a human right

nf Coppase
Gowonr

|_| Fep || sew trmcking| | matateet (ood to pos

search for. ‘Sort by relevance | #) | any pasitics

| [Xavinconner [LOpponn]
‘Wiha are “human rights”7The only rights we should be concerned about are the rigivts promised to us by our
Constitution. We do NOT need a kaeger government Let free market capstiliam do it's job. The goverrs
having control aver heal:

6 e100
| | Tenyspeaman (Oppo |
| | Acnger can nat oe refuses, What | moan by this is a “rghit” # tomy dependent on your awn acter. have me]

“right to froe speech, My ectons may reault in my Seath but na ong can slap me from doing It you are on a
sesened land an

Comment Femaink 0 670

| | Nelicitsin t 1
Since averyone has the right to Me, Eberty and the pursuit of hapsiness, that should not be crcumscribed by
the abilty to pay the extreme fees charged by the fascists {I mean the insurance companies). The LES is the
‘only Indhcatrial nation that do.

 

nt Peemannk

40 ¢1

Fig. 26. In Argumentum, users can indicate support for an argument
with money. The left-hand color bars indicate the supporting (green)
and opposing (red) arguments.

A.7. Argumentations.com
Argumentations®* serves analysts who want to de-
velop arguments collaboratively. Arguments, which
are classified as either claims or open-ended issues,
can be added or edited; an example is shown in Fig-
ure 27 on page iv. To help suggest topics and build
arguments, users can import news stories and extract
statements (declarative sentences) from stories.
Argumentations offers several unique features. First,
arguments—whether claims or open-ended issues—are
evaluated depending on their type. Claims are evalu-

 

Shttp://www.argumentations.com/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web ili

ated with a truth value and confidence. Open-ended is-
sues are evaluated based on Desirability, Importance,
Volatility, Likelihood, and Confidence. Second, along
with tag clouds, Argumentations uses ‘tag spheres’
(Figure 28). Further, arguments can be opened in Sil-
verlight. Finally, they offer some interesting tutorials
which display mindmaps™.

United
Nations
USA- KGI -
Energy . . Water
Climate .
_ Change Environment
Oil a
“China
Economy

Fig. 28. The global warming ‘tag sphere’ from Argumentations.

A.8&. Argunet

Argunet [154] is a desktop tool®> coupled with an
open source federation system for sharing argument
maps. A public server, Argunet.org®*, allows authors
to make maps public or restrict viewing and/or edit-
ing to a specified group. Connecting to other servers is
also possible; this focus on federation, makes Argunet
unique.

Argunet also has other unique features. Argunet is a
multi-lingual environment which records the language
of the map. Maps published at Argunet.org, must be
released under the CC-BY license. An extensive online
manual provides instruction, and they promote embed-
ding debates. Users also have significant control over
the presentation of arguments, such as colors and de-
scriptions of different argument families. Related maps
can be published in series, as shown in Figure 29(a).
In the argument map representation, each node can be
opened up to reveal a matrix listing which other ar-
guments support, attack, are supported by, and are at-
tacked by the given node (Figure 29(b)). Argunet ap-
pears to support incremental formalization since ar-
guments can be quickly sketched or reconstructed as
premises and conclusions.

 

“http: //www.argumentations.com/
Argumentations/Help/Tutorials/Tutorials.aspx

Shttp: //www.argunet.org/editor/

http: //www.argunet .org/debates/

Phase 2 Nodes: 16

The substantiation that the fossilized plants Eqges: 17

lie at the top of the Greywacke triggered a Inferential Density:
new anomaly. On the one hand, the fossil

criterion (H1) seemed to imply that the top

 

 

 

~ layers of the Greywacke are Carboniferous

(Fossil-clock-argument). On the other

hand, all British Carboniferous oaal ...

Phase 3 Nodes: 20

s Murchison and his colleagues assembled Edges: 23

empirical evidence from all over Europe, Inferential Density:

hoping to obtain clues about the correct

dating of the Devon Greywacke. During an

— expedition to Russia in 1840, they found,
(a)
Coe ee a ed or
Preset i ©
Fossils etsemtere found in
Carboniferous strata oceur (only) at
the top of the Davon Greywacke
os
(ern tn ns
teu Goreme,
soxcrs
emen oe pees een)
on) |
(b)

Fig. 29. Argunet can show an (a) overview of several related argu-
ment maps; and (b) in each individual map, nodes can be opened up
to show arguments they support, attack, are supported by, and are
attacked by.

A.9. Avicenna

Rahwan and Banihashemi’s OWL-based argumen-
tation system Avicenna (Figure 30 on page iv) was
demonstrated at COMMA 2008 [135] and recent de-
scriptions and screenshots appear in [136]. Extending
the work of ArgDF, Avicenna is a Web-based system
using Jena[31], ARQ*’, and Pellet [167]. Since OWL
supports inference over transitive properties, Avicenna
can support argument chaining, such as retrieving all
arguments that directly or indirectly support a given
conclusion. Avicenna is also used to infer the classi-
fication hierarchy of argument schemes: for example,
an appeal to expert opinion is a specialization of an
argument from position to know.

A.10. bCisive Online
bCisive Online®® is an online argument mapping

and spatial hypertext environment for real-time col-
laboration and team problem-solving (Figure 31(a) on

 

http: //jena. sourceforge.net /ARQ/
Shttp://www.bcisiveonline.com/
Water oy
ArgumentatiOAgs per,

 

EE

eae)

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

war on l!érror

War Crimes

 

rrorism

Argumentations [ Statements | Stories | Tags | Time!

lizatior
Rus Palestinian- Israeli ‘Conflict
fghanista Climate ch lorth Korera

ange

Pee ne bce

 

What is
Argumantations.com?

Contribute

(© voter 2 osition
#0 Develop Your
Argument
impor » story
Manoge Your
Quicklist
Give Feedback

Zimbabwe

Argument

Healthcare Is A Human Right
-- According te Sameer Dessani, Amnesty International
Background and Context (show)

Argument Tree [mse

 

Healthcare Is A Human Right

View bn Sibvarfight

 

= Current single-payer proposals come much closer to fulfilling the human right
to health care than the market-based reform plans. -- According to two of
Amnesty Internationalé€""s ally organizations, the National Economic and Social
Rights Initiative and the National Health Law Program >>

   

 

@aCoeEveryone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and
well-being of himseif and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and
medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event]
of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of

Report this...
Tags
‘Amnesty International, Finance, Health,
Healthcare, Human Rights, Obama,

Politics, US Healthcare, USA,

Other Argumentations by this Author...
Other suggested Argumentations...
Embed this Argumentation Map on your
website...

livelihood in circumstances beyand his control

1.4€ -- Universal Declaration of

| Human Rights, Article 25, United Nations >>

 

| MiHealth care should not be considered a human right. >>

 

 

 

Fig. 27. In Argumentions, colored dots indicate the supporting (green) and opposing (red) arguments.

 

Details of argument Tipping lowers self esteem

 

This argumet ie an instance of Appeal te Expert Opinion and has been crested by Mona Haidar

a See
zw io eee
S ins ac
1 Ph yee png pe
ne oa pean)
Z ‘=o
none el
pPremiso:
oS
(Dr Phil 8 an expert wn 3
Paychology
oa
Al
a =
Or Poa acnate gt SP —> SEITEN tg ie a ete
“ Al

 

 

Fig. 30. Avicenna uses Walton’s critical questions and argument schemes [136].

page v). Aimed at the business market and individual
decision-makers, bCisive Online is a commercial prod-
uct from AusThink, the makers of the Rationale desk-
top tool; the free option allows up to three users to
collaborate, or users can upgrade with a monthly sub-
scription fee. bCisive Online is unique in that it is in-
tended for real-time use with audio conferencing. One
person edits the map at a time, adding nodes and con-
nections between nodes (Figure 31(b) on page v) while
others can point with their cursor or request editing
control. Maps can be embedded in blogs (which allows

viewers to pan, zoom, hide and show parts of the map)
or exported as PowerPoint. Snapshots can be saved as
history items, to allow restoring to or reviewing a pre-
vious map.

A.ll. Belvedere

Belvedere®’ is open source software for problem-
based collaborative learning. It provides multiple

 

http: //belvedere. sourceforge.net/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web v

  

Situation
buy the Suzuki

==

 

 

 

 

 

Ta

(b)

Fig. 31. (a) Collaborative maps for bCisive Online can be used for decision-making and requirements analysis. (b) bCisive Online’s node types

show the kinds of discussions that it facilitates.

views, such as tables, graphs, and argument maps, of
the same topic (Figure A.11). It has been extensively
investigated in studies of computer-supported collabo-

rative learning [172].

themes | climate change f coral Bleaching |

    

 

 

Ser xa

fel) =| | gt

ad a A Fa
(Fetintios or via
c
themes | climate change [ coral bleaching |
(“Delete ) (Tadd Data) {CAdd Hypothesis) (7 Print Preview)
hemmal stress duet. Pallution or irritant Disease UV Stress
z / oS /
Sr | snecies specific = = =

Ca # - #

temperature increas +

Ozone depletion has... «

Fig. 32. Belvedere has both argument maps and tables to help orga-
nize evidence in collaborative learning.

A.12. Cabanac’s annotation system

Cabanac used a Java-based system” to research so-
cial validation of the arguments in comments [28].
Users did not contribute new content to an ongoing
public debate, but analyzed the argumentative status
of document comments. Uniquely, sliders were used
to indicate the extent to which items were refuted,
neutral, or confirmed (Figure 33 on page vi). In ef-
fect, users were asked to synthesize the discussion.
Aggregated information was not viewed by the users,
but held by the experimenter. However, in principle,
this approach could be used to promote collaborative
sensemaking not just of annotations but also of debate.

A.13. Climate CoLab

The Climate CoLab?! is a deliberation platform un-
der development at MIT, building on former projects
such as the Deliberatorium and the ClimateCollabato-
rium [88,89,71]. The community runs an annual con-
test to gather proposals for mitigating global warming
from the general public; once proposals are filtered by
experts, everyone is invited to discuss the finalists.

Users deliberate in the Positions tab, which facili-
tates constructing an argument map, voting, and com-
menting on each of five key topics. Moderators are ex-
pected to review comments and add new ideas to the
argument map; users can also add Pros, Cons, and Is-

 

nttp://www.irit.fr/~Guillaume.Cabanac/
expe/
Unttp://climatecolab.org/
vi Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

According to its replies, this tem is.

 

Alice : "In the near future, digital documents will completely replace paper.”

 

 

| ae Ges) Ges)

Oo? OA OF

 

Fig. 33. Cabanac had users flag items (refuted, neutral, confirmed) and indicate their types (question, modification, example).

sues directly to an argument map. The Climate CoLab
is unique for integrating argument maps into a larger
debate, and for its moderator support, which allows
users to benefit from argument maps without necessar-
ily needing to understand how to edit them.

A.14. Cohere

Cohere is open source software for sensemaking
which integrates annotation and argumentation for the
general public [162,101]. At the Cohere website”,
users can view and create maps, or import them from
the Compendium desktop software. Maps consist of
ideas, which users can add directly on the site (Fig-
ure 35), draw from Cohere’s global pool of public
ideas, or clip via a Firefox plugin while browsing.

  

aunty

‘Seee) (Caren

Fig. 35. Adding an idea to Cohere.

Cohere is unique for its integration with the Com-
pendium desktop software, its incorporation of social
bookmarking, and the ability to mark information as
private, public, or shared with a group. Cohere also of-
fers an API?.

 

2nttp://cohere.open.ac.uk/
Bhttp://cohere.open.ac.uk/help/code-doc/

A.15. Competing Hypotheses
Competing Hypotheses” is open source analysis
software based on the CIA methodology “Analysis
of Competing Hypotheses" (ACH). The software sup-
ports breaking down information into hypotheses, evi-
dence, and analysis, which are entered into a matrix as
shown in Figure 36(a) on page vii. The matrix can help
visually indicate the most likely and least likely scenar-
os.?> Multiple analyses can be combined to provide
a group view (Figure 36(b) on page vii), or compared
pairwise. Competing Hypotheses has persistent chat
(essentially a comment thread) for the entire project as
well as message boards for each hypothesis, evidence
item, and evidence-hypothesis pair. We excluded ear-
lier ACH implementations such as PARC ACH”. Un-
like these systems, Competing Hypotheses has a test-
ing server’ which allows online collaboration. It is
unique for its visualization structure and its use of both
individual and group information.

A.16. Considerht

Considerlt® [94] is a new open source deliberation
platform under development at the University of Wash-
ington. It powers the Living Voters’ Guide”, a delib-
eration and voter-information platform for Washington
State voters.

What is unique is the possibility to drill down to un-
derstand other voters’ perspectives. In addition to see-
ing pros and cons on an issue from all voters, regard-

 

“http: //competinghypotheses.org/

°5More sophisticated ACH-based software uses matrices as input
to Bayesian probabilistic reasoning.

Shttp://www2.parc.com/istl/projects/ach/
ach. html

Thetp: //groups.google.com/group/ach-users/
browse_thread/thread/d87abec4ddf 8be6c0

Shttp://www.livingvotersguide.org/
considerit

Snttp://www.livingvotersguide.org/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

Proposals:

+show help

vii

 

? Should developed countries provide
funding to help developing nations
address climate change?

 
    

Position Q
©. Yes: Developed countries should 1 oe
© provide funding.
9. Rich countries created the 0
eo
problem

Yq Costto developed world 0
will be relatively small

 

~ Public in developed nations 0
© will not support such
transfers

 

 

 

ef, No: Developing countries should 0 wy Vo
pay theirown way
Each nation should take 0
responsibility for itself

 

 

 

? Question

Should developed countries provide funding
to help developing nations address climate
change?
A key issue that emerged at the Copenhagen climate talks was whether
developing countries would provide financing to help developing nations
defray the cost of emission reductions and adaptation. For more, see Financial
transfers in climate negotiations
References:

1. Project Catalyst, Briefing Paper: Overall Financing Needs, December 2009 (4 page pdf file)

OC sehrow hap Omments

It is difficult to figure out exactly how much developed nations should compensate

 

“Developed countries. 0
paid their way

 

 

— Without financing, 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ping nations for and

There is starting to be more research on the exact costs of damages to the economy from
climate change, though.

Here's a paperon Temperatures and cyclones strongly associated with economic
production in the Caribbean and Central America

http://swww.pnas.org/content/107/35/15367,full

By yangr on 10/25/10 2:36. AM

(a)

In debates, an argument map appears on the Left, Argument maps have four elements:

+ P issue

+ positions on theissue
* @ arguments for

* & arguments against

Click on any item to view more detail, You can vote (9 ) on one position per issue. To add to the summary,log in and click the Advanced button. At the right,

you may comment ((—}) on any item.See more.

Hide this message

(b)

Fig. 34. At Climate CoLab, (a) the positions tab shows an argument map which users can edit or comment on. (b) argument maps are introduced

with contextual help.

Personal Matrix 3

Edit your consistency scores Duplicate personal matrix

Alrplane
o

emg Credible Eanalstent
Create Consistent

Credivle ——Consistemt

Se ting

 

‘Comraits don't widen ax ‘missile’ climbs
(Compare the ranngs of { tester 1B) wath: ( Marthew ourton 1) (Compare)
‘View others’ personal matrices: | Matthew aurtan i) ( View...)

(a)

Group Matrix 3

Consensus Guage:

Ce]
a

Ce
a

Consensus 1 Consensus §
Miké Dispuse

Mild Dispute

Plumes are dispersing while source is still kn view
LU
ere head ke aes Masta cuued

‘Consensus N

 

Consensus [iC Consensus 1

: —
‘Compare the ratings of (Compare. )

‘ew others’ personal matrices: | Matthew Burton 689 (| View.
(b)

   

Fig. 36. In Competing Hypotheses, (a) each individual’s analysis is represented in a consistency matrix; (b) multiple analyses can be combined
to create a group matrix. In the group view, darker shades of purple indicate more disagreement.
viii Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

Explore what other voters think about 1053. ii] Explore what other voters think about 1053.
‘Cohen 1 ate sec he Ray pe Ina Ee Gro Deve ‘Cilek oe a bar is ne scene ct Poe hry paints that the group beskeves ig
oe ec

 

PED alee Si eesti emeseieien eo basemen ae

 

(a)

‘om your rat a come

My en scarce Se

  

1053 operons
of rosa nee we undectaed on innate 908

   
  

 

(b)

Fig. 37. The Living Voters’ Guide compiles pro and con lists on each issue. They give (a) an overview of what all voters think about the issue; as

well as (b) the key points for undecided voters.

less of their stance, (Figure 37(a)), the Living Voters’
Guide can show the key points for a particular group
of voters (Figure 37(b)), such as those undecided on
the issue or strongly supporting it. This can help users
understand what makes an issue controversial. Users
indicate how they feel about an issue before and af-
ter reading an argument (deliberative polling), which
could also be used to find the most convincing argu-
ments.

A.17. ConvinceMe

ConvinceMe! is a competitive debating environ-

ment which uses a point scheme and user rankings to
motivate contributions to several types of debates. In
the King of the Hill game, the most popular choice (and
the debater who suggested it) wins. Battles are one-
on-one debates between two users, who add arguments
and evidence in hopes of getting readers’ votes; the
debate ends when one side gets a pre-agreed number
of votes. Open debates (Figure A.17) are ongoing and
accept pro or con arguments from any registered user,
as well as rebuttals to existing arguments; users con-
vinced by an argument vote for it. These various types
of debate games make ConvinceMe unique.

A.18. CoPe_it!

CoPe_it!!®! [182] is a spatial hypertext environ-
ment for collaboration, aimed at the learning and e-

 

Mnttp://www.convinceme.net/
lnttp://copeit.cti.gr/

Ninjas versus Pirates

Te
COL
eas

 

Add an Argument Add an Argument

para conase moses (on)

 

ETO. on H a ‘st cominced 1
tan 03. 2007 are en, 2007 Lcinanal
Ninjas have foe advarsage on land, ba Although, raped ta mci thet pais tse matoars. A
Unt fs 2 ins, and than youll navee sea fem Becauka you hive.na people Not caly fst but they ate nar bound by marality Uke ninja
aaa. And Pair eagas. Foran wil Kl ARYEAR, BI anys, fr By MNES
Buon saa, crams are dangerous. But ainja could anes on board
[And pirates are too loud. You and say yar, and ate usually dra, it
‘al ninyat zz 0)
Wibur: 61 convinced:
Rebuttal
dan 02, 2007

 
 

An, tee anachroniam that in te ninjal Are thar aver: any ninja taf in
1 gh as pina? | Am pews Bee ALS PUR PinRE
ath samyrni (epaaking of which, in she masta TH
ninjas and saemuraia Guke it out, and Lam gewty
teat prates aw and'wore historical horntes poopie kllng and ‘kure Mat was anachmnisec wa) | aay NAY!
stealing from innccent peopie. Ninjas were people Shi fot what
waa ight Drair medio and farina, And Seay are way Rote
(Gohnny upp ame excenton

   

Rebuttal
es, 2087

 

‘Yet mogem pirates abound! ee The Gutiaw Sea:.A Wosd of
Freedom, Chace. and Cee by Wihiam Langowibsche. Pirie st
hk aan, aven in a word of amm bombe and piacnemas. foes,
piiwies peobably ose Biackbemes Backbumes, eyupaiches and

Fig. 38. In ConvinceMe’s Open Debates, users can vote for an argu-
ment that convinced them

government domains. Users can form groups to share
maps, but communicate only through email on the site.
Maps can be imported from Compendium, and entire
discussions from external webforums in phpNuke for-
mat can be imported using a URL.

One unique aspect of in CoPe_it! is its approach
to incremental formalization. CoPe_it! transforms the
user-created informal spatial hypertext view (Fig-
ure 39(a) on page ix) into an issue chart Figure 39(b)
on page ix according to rules shown in Figure 39(c) on
page ix. Users can also customize the transformation
tules.
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web ix

Coan

 

Seeoes

 

C60, O06

Workspace Issue
Title

Idea Alternative

Items

Linked => er )

  

Other a ¢
I
: @& Ignore

(b) (c)

Fig. 39. CoPe_it! has (a) an informal spatial hypertext view; and (b) a formalized view, created by (c) automatically transforming items.

A.19. CreateDebate

CreateDebate!” is a social debate community, aimed
at the general public as well as primary and sec-
ondary school classes'*?. The highest-rated arguments
are shown at the top, based on user votes (and ignoring
the down votes), which are also used to determine a
point score for the user. They offer bookmarklets and
promote JavaScript buttons to webmasters!%*. Some
unique features are that the debate moderator can add
a ‘Topic Research’ section with RSS feeds from other
sites, and that, in addition to pro/con debates, Cre-
ateDebate has Perspective debates, which generally
have more than two sides, are scored based on user-
applied tags. A wordcloud and various statistics (Fig-
ure 40), including the language grade level, average
word lengths, and vocabulary overlap are calculated
for each debate.

A.20. Debate.org

Debate.org!® is a social networking site for debate
lovers. Debates take place between two members and
have four cycles: the challenge period, debating pe-
tiod, voting period, and post voting period. The de-
bating period consists of 1-5 time-limited rounds in
which debaters post arguments. While comments can
be added at any time, votes are only accepted dur-
ing the voting period. Voting involves choosing one of
the debators (or ‘tied’) for each of the following six

 

http: //www.createdebate.com/
1Bnttp://www.createdebate.com/about/sites/

school
M4http://www.createdebate.com/share/buttons
IShttp://debate.org/

relieve

 

 

god
Fig. 40. At CreateDebate, users add and comment on pro and con
arguments.

questions: (1) Agreed with before the debate: (worth
0 points) (2) Agreed with after the debate: (worth 0
points) (3) Who had better conduct: (worth 1 point)
(4) Had better spelling and grammar: (worth 1 point)
(5) Made more convincing arguments: (worth 3 points)
(6) Used the most reliable sources: (worth 2 points)
. Points are awarded, with the most importance given
to using reliable sources and making convincing argu-
ments.

Another unique feature is Debate.org’s focus on user
profiles, where various user details are displayed in-
cluding information such as income, location, ideol-
ogy, gender, president, religion, and who they are in-
terested in and looking for. These can be used to search
for people with particular profile attributes, and ag-
gregate user demographics! are also available. De-
bate.org also determines the percentage to which other
members agree with you on “the big issues" (cultural,

 

\6nttp: //www.debate.org/about/demographics /
x Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

religious, and political hot topics). Individual members
are also ranked by their percentile, based on the out-
comes of previous debates.

 
  

   

The Instigator Mucear Pree themostvabis wubettute from foasl The Contender

Vote Here

Pee Tied tem

 

forest Seamed Winning Losing

  

a

ar
(Ail ap | arene teen meer pon some peed eu ts Pn a te |

Fig. 41. Debate.org is a social networking site promoting debate.

A.21, Debategraph

Debategraph!”’ [106] is a wiki debate visualization
tool which has been adopted for use at the Kyoto cli-
mate change summit and is being tested by EU projects
such as WAVE)’. Debategraph offers several visual-
izations, including the Debate Explorer view shown in
Figure 42(a) on page xi and a text-based outline shown
in Figure 42(b) on page xi. Visualizations can be em-
bedded in other websites, and Debategraph encourages
users to add links to related webpages within graphs.

A.22. Debatepedia

Debatepedia! bills itself as the “the Wikipedia of
pros and cons". Sponsored by the International Debate
Education Association, Debatepedia is a collaborative
community effort to summarize arguments. Each ar-
gument page provides an overview, then a list of is-
sues, with pros and cons supported by news articles
and similar sources. It provides an intuitive editing en-
vironment, where users can edit just the relevant sec-
tion, such as the pro or con for a topic. Debatepedia
is unique for providing an easily-editable wiki of pros
and cons.

 

http: //debategraph.org/
http: //www.wave-project.eu/
Snttp://debatepedia.idebate.org/

A.23. Debatewise
On Debatewise!"®, everyone can collaborate in cre-
ating the strongest case both for and against a given
issue. As part of a partnership with the International
Debate Education Association (iDebate), they provide
links to Debatepedia and iDebate’s reference site De-
batabase!''. Karma, teams, and lists of recent partici-
pants and new editors help motivate participation.

USE GEOENCINEERING TO SHIELD THE EARTH FROM SUNLIGHT,

   

Uiee gouengincering to whielif Phe eueth fran sunlight.

Yeu, Become No, because
Mipht os self»

 

orking
Ina grouncworn stowed ba aang ad tr geoargeerng

Fig. 43. Debatewise offers an executive summary, followed by a de-
tailed pro/con debate.

There are several unique features. The site makes
it easy to get involved by providing suggestions of 5-
minute, 20-minute and 1-hour tasks and showing “7
things you should have an opinion on" in rotating im-
ages on the homepage. Edit histories are available for
each pro and con point. Debates are structured as ad-
judicated debates between two teams; other users can
make comments, vote, and subscribe to debates.

A.24. Discourse DB

DiscourseDB!" is used to collaboratively collect
policy-related commentary. Opinion pieces (Figure 44(a)
on page xi) are collected from notable sources, news-
papers and websites with at least 50,000 circula-
tion/unique visitors per month. Users categorize these
opinion pieces, selecting a quote, indicating the topic

 

NOnttp: //debatewise.org/

http: //www.idebate.org/debatabase/intro.
php

N2nttp://discoursedb.org/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web xi

   

‘What dows ean want? |

an
=

(a)

 

t om

Seer t serexe or
piscoraneamaoaroumaments L ==
ence _. See

4 Ae perengman wars 85
_S, peeee een tence

Lami ta gen rt
=o

 

ee tte ned O87) ne Ro
pepe Pantin a oem ot t ee
ee eeeteaeeert
Der ge rarer ee oe menses erent
at rea apa gcee an ptm | —
secre nate apt 9 Gog ee —
eae ae ee Rare i faae peer opener

_. rea

(b)

Fig. 42. Debategraph for CNN’s Amanpour TV shown in (a) Debate Explore view; (b) text view.

 

 

 

———
NCTE LT re nae Pent stmt Eat View ary | ea (sean)
mee | Don't touch my junk? Grow up, America.
= Th ot epi nem,
ameris) Ma a
egisce Source Toe nseryen Pe
Leliaal Date Novenber 242010

 

nerenron
oe

Beene tne
ore
Serer tm saat
tt
4

a

—

one

A wr ogee et
ha wwe

Aor ese
data
ee
Tae

es lone

(a)

Page Ocum Flead anwar form East View ristory = Con} iteme

New START

‘Tha a opie, wth slat date ApeT BL 2010 re urhrowm ert ie

 

 

 

 

the Peres} gee lens date

Poations ata shown ruvoner-cteonclegicaly. ty Per eartest sini tar

Newgate : ;
ieee Summary of positions for this topic
amt = Treay outers (tema
ve
vasa
aay Full listing
om, (es ton nae vie gto om a ie en
lecuuin Treaty should be ratified

einen tarveslender For ‘Tha Mlepwtlican sen tr rating Mew START by Herey Knsirger, Corerps Eva, Jeena Baer, Lame
a

 

for
nay
(cot city START by fan Franckco Ceenicle ediovl board (Sin Francice Cronies, owner 1, 2080)
coreete ae
‘Add an epmon tee
Se Eee ener Againet | Now STAT, Ol Whine by Investors Business Daly estorial Soar (investors Business Day, November 24,
Saracens 2010) Wve
As ape ‘A Poor START by Rich Lowry (Aasonal Review, Novericor 25, 2010) (view o)

Hy boven Reems Daly moral tare [inendor's Mera Daly,

  

‘Tes
eed Onarra’strnw-warn focus on te hiew START vaty ty Gorge F.Wil(The Wiaatingean Post Oecember 2

Wai ee Fees ‘B00 (view

Peat -ma-pay

wot

Seeew pape All terns that address: this: topic (8 total)

Prreatin verses

fianaa a fs Tite FS Auther Hy Seome i Bate

tema cepetes ‘Atom START Tasty? Ne Das Inverters fusinaes Daay ecaeral invericry unas 17 Rioweroar

beara Day amo

an Francteco Chvontle ogterial Gan Franciece

(b)

Dont delay STAAT November

Fig. 44. In DiscourseDB, (a) users catalog opinion pieces; (b) this generates an overview of the positions for, against, and mixed on a topic.

and position, along with whether the author’s argument
is for, against, or mixed on the position.

DiscourseDB uses Semantic MediaWiki [95] with
the SemanticForms!!? extension. This makes it possi-
ble to list all commentary written by particular person,
published in a particular venue, and so forth.

Further, since items indicate the position they take
on a topic, DiscourseDB can list all commentary for
or against a given position as shown in Figure 44(b).

 

Bhttp://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:
Semantic_Forms

When a topic has multiple positions (e.g. Darfur!'*),
DiscourseDB is especially helpful in summarizing the
discussion.

A.25. Dispute Finder
Dispute Finder!!5 [53,54] is a browser extension
that alerts users when information they read is dis-
puted, based on a database of disputed claims. This

 

M4hetp://discoursedb.org/wiki/Darfur_
conflict
'Shttp://ennals.org/rob/disputefinder.html
xii Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

database was created by asking activists (who are in-
terested in informing or convincing others) to indi-
cate disputed claims manually, and then extended algo-
rithmically. While the Dispute Finder plugin remains
available!'®, it notes that the project has ended; unfor-
tunately, the plugin no longer highlights phrases such
as the “abortion reduces crime" phrase used in paper
examples.

A.26. Hypernews

Hypernews!’ [21] is a general purpose Web forum,
inspired by Usenet news. Its use of message types dis-
tinguishes HyperNews from other forums. Users are
asked to indicate what kind of message they are post-
ing (None, Question, Note, Warning, Feedback, Idea,
More, News, Ok, Sad, Angry, Agree, Disagree) as
shown in Figure 45(a) on page xiii; the message type
is then displayed as an icon in the forum’s thread view
(Figure 45(b) on page xiii).

A.27. Living Vote

At Living Vote!!®, the general public can discuss
pro and con arguments of issues, creating argument
maps, as shown in Figure 46 on page xiii. A tree view
provides a coherent view of the argument, which can
be drilled down, where arguments and their counter-
arguments are presented side-by-side. Users can add
arguments, and voting colors the nodes according to
whether you agree (green), disagree (red), or haven’t
voted (white).

Living Vote is unique in the way that it handles and
uses votes. To vote, users must answer questions de-
signed to test whether they’ve read the arguments. Liv-
ing Vote also prunes unhelpful arguments and aims to
provide a “complete, persistent, constantly changing
and up-to-date record" of everyone’s opinions and the
most convincing arguments.

A.28. Opinion Space
Opinion Space is software developed by UC Berke-

ley’s Center for New Media “designed to collect and
visualize user opinions" on a variety of topics [55]. The

 

"6http://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/
addon/11712/

http://www. hypernews.org/HyperNews/get/
hypernews/reading.html

'8http://www.LivingVote.org/

U.S. Department of State is using Opinion Space!’ to
aggregate opinions about foreign policy and create a
“virtual town hall" as shown in Figure 47.

 

Fig. 47. Opinion Space maps comments in a constellation view.

Opinion Space is unique in its use of deliberative
polling and visualization. With deliberative polling,
participants are polled both before and after deliber-
ation, to better understand how public opinion can
change based on increased understanding of the issues.
Users move sliders to express their opinions on five is-
sues. The system then maps the user’s opinion, using
principal component analysis, to show the user where
they stand. Each point in the visualization represents a
perspective; larger points represent more popular per-
spectives. Users can also view and rate others’ com-
ments (Figure 48). Ratings can be used to choose the
most informative comments for display.

Ue esl aul

ieicM (1s) Sam lm tee

ieee ery

J

ene eg

eRe

eae]

Oar

 

Fig. 48. Opinion Space uses sliders to collect and display users’
opinions on five issues.

 

http: //www.state.gov/opinionspace/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web xiii

Kind of message:

19 @) No "Next message" in response header by Nils Davis, 1995, Aug 30

1 @ Lnoticed that too by ben@wiliki.eng hawaii.edu, 1995, Oct 06

 

 

(If this node is a Message.)

© th None O P Idea

OQ Question © & More O @ Angry
O 2 Note O # News O g} Agree

: 2 @Ok © & Disagree

 

381 Next and Previous will be rejoining us soon by diberte@hypernews.org, 1995, Oct 09
20 P It would be nice to have "TOP" option , 1995, Nov 17

1 4) Lost without a "Top" option by jaf@iyrell.net, 1996, Jun 15
1 & Implemented a HOME/Top option by haroon@wwwnoet.attmail.com, 1996, Jul 10

2 & A better implementation for Top/Home by haroon@wwwanoet attmail.com, 1996, Jul 10

21 Reversing Threads? by Randy Cosby, 1995, Dec 30
1 & Other solutions possible too by liberte@hypernews.org, 1995, Dec 30

1 =4 Another alternative... by jap@te.cornell.edu, 1996, Jan 02

(a)

(b)

Fig. 45. (a) Users are asked to specify their message type, using this Hypernews taxonomy; (b) Part of a Hypernews discussion thread.

How It works

Username or Email;

California Prop 8, which states “anly

Livingvote,org; Same Sex Marriage (CA Prop 8) (1212 vs 647

Password: Login beats Re

Share/Bookmark/Linl#

The Whole Tree

California Prop &, which states “only
marriage between a man and a woman is
valid or recognized in California” should

 

stand.
Disagree Total vate

 

Add an Argument

Arguments Against

Gay couples deserve the dignity of
marriage as well,

74%

 

65%

 

Agree

 

Add an Ar

 

Arguments in Favor

Prop 8 protects the free expression of
retigion

65%

ara ran end

 

Children are best served when reared in a
home with a married mother and father.

70%

 

 

Lngend: (C) You agree Ow Disagree You Haven't Veted

 

Fig. 46. At Living Vote, the weight given to a user’s votes increases as they read and vote on more arguments.

A.29. Online Visualisation of Arguments (OVA)

Online Visualisation of Arguments!?° (OVA) is an
online argument analysis and mapping environment
[169] which exports AIF. In OVA, web pages can be
displayed adjacent to an argument mapping canvas,
helping analysts create a graphical representation of
the arguments in online forums or news stories. The re-
sulting argument maps can show the relationships be-
tween premises (supporting or attacking) as well as the
participants responsible for each point of view. In ad-
dition to AIF, users can export JPEG and SVG images
of the argument.

OVA is part of a pipeline of argumentation tools
[168] which starts to bridge the gap between human-

 

Mnttp://ova.computing.dundee.ac.uk

oriented argumentation tools and calculation-based
agent argumentation. Mixed initiative discussions are
enabled by the argument maps created by OVA or
any other AIF-based tool. Thus, instead of represent-
ing one’s point of view countless times in a forum or
FAQ, it would be possible to delegate these conversa-
tions to a machine agent using an underlying argument
map, as prototypes like MAgtALO'! [145,202] and
the Google Wave discussion bot Arvina [169] show.

A.30. Parmenides

Parmenides!”? [32,33,34] is a structured survey tool
for gathering public opinion on a proposal. Based on

 

inttp://www.arg.dundee.ac.uk/?page_id=61
http: //cegi.csc.liv.ac.uk/~parmenides/
xiv Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

argument schemes and critical questions from argu-
mentation theory, Parmenides can pinpoint the source
of the disagreement, by having participants respond to
a series of questions. In a Parmenides debates, partic-
ipants are first asked to agree or disagree with a posi-
tion on a question such as “Should laptops be banned
in lecture theatres?" (Figure 49(a) on page xv). Those
who disagree are stepped through several screens (such
as Figure 49(b) on page xv) of yes/no questions to de-
termine the source of the disagreement. Limited free
text boxes allow users to add further information. At
the end of the survey, users are offered the choice of
submitting an alternative proposal, and are shown the
answers they chose. Administrators can then analyze
the group’s responses, which are displayed in graphi-
cal argumentation frameworks [51]. A greater under-
standing of the most popular reasons for disagreement
could support further discussion and debate about the
key issues.

A.31. PDOnline

SWAN/SIOC is itself used in PDOnline!”?, an on-
line community for scientists, funders, and medical
professionals working in Parkinson’s disease science,
which is funded by the Michael J. Fox Foundation
[48].

Figure 50 shows a PDOnline discussion about a
recently-published paper and indicates how the topic
fits into the “PD Guide" taxonomy of research and
communication topics. The discussion links both for-
ward to responses and related contributions and back
to a thread on Papers of the Week (itself contained
within a Research Question board). Members’ full
names, credentials, and institutional affiliations are
listed, with links to user profiles and institutions. Mem-
bers’ profiles link to their publications, and throughout
the site explicit references to the literature are given. It
is unique in that it uses scientific argumentation.

A.32. REASON

REASON —Rapid Evidence Aggregation Support-
ing Optimal Negotiation [80,81] — is a Java applet for
group deliberation, used to arrive at a consensus de-
cision. Drawing from decision theory, group-decision
support systems, and argumentation, REASON is in-
tended to improve information pooling. An argument
map is used to organize group evidence shared dur-

Welcome Guest | Be & petof PO Onine Research

pd ONLINE RESEARCH — —

Log in | recov password

ee oe ee to ea
ee

Re ee ad

Is GIGYF2 a PD gene or not?

By Bran K. she, PD,

    

  

Po Guide: iit

Response te Research Question: POWs: Papers of the Weck
View all 17 resporses to this Research Question

DIRECTLY RESPONDING TO:

POWs: February 23-29, 2010

     

  
 

OPSSPNEST Other opinions on the GIGYF2 [ink to:
vn, Ls oe

By: Be eke, ME

‘The report from Wang et al identitying variants of GIGYF2 (PARKI4) in Chinese PD patients
seems to bring back a gene that I had assumed was ne longer considered a genetic factor
involved in D (see Bras et al, 2009). Is there any consensus in the field an this gene? If its
ota facto, what is the best way to shaw that once and for all?

REFERENCE:

fang L, Guo IF Zhang WW MU Q, Za0 x, SCH, et al. Revel GIGYF2 gana variants patents wh
Parkinsie’s Gsase n Chinese population. Neuroscience tars. 2010. Ernote XML BIOTEX

Stncher J, Feder , Margadinhe  JanuarieG, Ribaka Mt al Lack of relation
yen CIGYF2 varlans end Parkin disease: Hum Mol Ganet. 2009; 18(2):3415,

  

RESPONSES

No
By: Mark Cookson, NHL {Mar 2049 94:28 8M EST

Fig. 50. Part of an argumentative discussion at PDOnline

ing the decision-making process; further, in an adap-
tive version of REASON, aggregate weights express-
ing the group’s view of each alternative are displayed.
Uniquely, arguments start as threaded discussions in
REASON, and are colored based on whether they
agree (blue) or disagree (yellow) with their parent in
the thread.

A.33. Riled Up!

Riled Up!!* (Figure 51(a) on page xv) is a debate-
centered site which motivates participation with a
point-based authority system. Aimed at people who
enjoy debate, Riled Up!’s tagline is “Like Raising
Cain? So Do We." Users can add debates, arguments,
and comments, and vote for others’ arguments, as well
as add friends and enemies.

Riled Up! is unique in its comment system—users
can respond with positive (green), neutral (grey), or
negative (red) comments, as shown in Figure 51(b) on
page xv. In addition to a standard layout, a contributor
view gives an overview of the arguments but not the
comments.

 

IBhttp://www.pdonlineresearch.org/

P4énttp://riledup.com/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

mA efor

 

a a a a a

Wa betere fat Blan lagtope in tecture theatres in ig bcos

nine curent amaaton
eter eae, Univer a techie Peres

‘sucercr unre ices Guects nce, Unreg lpsios rey acre inh Daretoa tr among. Ung apnea ny hcnmes Gare Oter

manoat of he aumence

(Our poate are

Make Pe rune consistent Alow fo lecirw in concanéatr on piving fee amseniason ncreaee auéence concentrator ne fechum, Reduce diaracton of

cher materce mame

This wil achiene

Fecire Garmin wanes grace menee's nrveses Cee’ pecpie Jearang nemae msence conceresean on cm jrumeaes Feraina seareng

[Anos Pa cue’ nce on veg he Dasenatin pomcas Ratgett ake he Wen cnie' omOE COME ery

‘lo you agree with the minal of our position?

(a)

DU egy eee Red
aera ensen Sne

XV

The use of laptops in lecture theatres

 

Dis pou Beek Bea tslowrng enc valves ww wanth pring?

Ik
(tw becle soem ®
Peas arg .
mee .
onaitcy ®

‘Are Bee ary oft valoen.sctemartionsclin fa ti above, hich ys fink aru wer romana?

es. smne ree nen

(b)

Fig. 49. (a) In Parmenides, participants are asked to agree or disagree with a starting position. (b) Next Parmenides steps participants through a
series of yes/no questions to pinpoint the source of their disagreement.

Lek

 

be

People are aimays preaching “eat heattiy

 

‘expenaive than eating unhealthy. Fresh

vou get the wheat kind

ee

 

Is it posible to eat healthy AND cheap?

don't realize is that esting healthy can often be mare
itand vegetables are expensivel Pasta ia wcess is bad fi

for you unless

 

 
 
  

iS | ce
} Eating healthy can be cheap, Eating unhealthy food i: B Lo]
you just need to plan ahead. Its unfortunatly cheaper tha a .
more expensive to take care of healthy food. Only the rich ca y v
a hear eat healthy.
ie: Lo] ES
Ls aa
a =n : t
a eens Sensi w
a mB fava De di
(a) (b)

Fig. 51. RiledUp (a) debates allow structured discussion on a topic; and (b) readers can respond with positive (green), neutral (grey), or negative

(red) comments.

A.34. SEAS

SRI International’s SEAS! [105,104] is a template-
based structured argumentation tool originally de-
signed for collaborative intelligence analysis. It has
since been tested in other domains such as by IRS
tax auditors and in a simulated public health emer-
gency. SEAS’s most unique feature is its emphasis on
templating; users can author templates which provide
transferrable notions of how to make an argument, and
specify authorized coeditors. Figure 52 on page xvi
shows one question from such a template. These tem-
plates, which are in essence domain-specific argument

 

MShttp://www.ai.sri.com/~seas/

schemes, allow non-experts to make sound reasoning.
SEAS automatically answers some questions based on
earlier responses. The developers report that a threat-
assessment template originally developed by U.S. in-
telligence analysts was successfully applied by non-
experts in their laboratory. SEAS visualization fea-
tures are also considerable: to visualize multiple di-
mensions, SEAS uses starburst, constellation, and ta-
ble views. SRI International runs a SEAS server with

paid accounts and SEAS server software is available.
©

°

o
4 4

1.3.1 UNUSUAL TRANSACTION: Is there a large, unusual, or questionable
Jransaction?

 

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

added rich relationships suchas is elaborated by,
is supported by, is summarized by, and
stands though contradicted by, which the
system stored in XML, RDF, and DAML+OIL.

In contrast to the detailed argumentation of Rich
Trellis, Tree Trellis uses only pro and con, and col-

 

John Lowrance 15 Jan 2007 16:45:30
@ Yes, almost certainly

Likely, more likely than not

Even, about as likely as nat

Uniiicely, more unlikely than not

No, almost cartainiy net

suspicion.

The bank transaction is sufficiently large to warrant strong

laborative discussion is supported, while Table Trellis
allows feature and value pairs to be arranged in a ma-
trix, allowing the user to compare and evaluate alter-
natives according to their own criteria.

|A.36. TruthMapping

 

e Bank Transaction Record

This contains @ lang ction that is cut
of Ihe ondinary lor a business of this size.

   

 

Deleted re: ds on his computer inciuded
references to a known problematic company.

e

TruthMapping!’ is an online deliberation tool which
seeks to structure the conversation to focus around the
“aha!" moment, avoiding digressions and soapboxes,
and making hidden assumptions explicit. TruthMap

 

 

 

facilitates structured conversations which use argu-
ment maps, critiques and rebuttals (Figure 53(a) on

 

 

Fig. 52. SEAS uses a series of questions to structure the argument
[105].

A.35. Trellis software

The argument analysis system Trellis!26 [61,40,41]
was built on Semantic Web technologies, including the
Semantic Annotation Vocabulary Section 7.7, page 20.
Trellis, inspired by intelligence analysis, began as a
credibility and analysis system to help structure de-
cisions, for example to construct a family geneology
based on contradictory information [61].

Originally, Trellis was designed to help capture ar-
gumentation, grounded in documents, whose reliabil-
ity the user rated, and from which the user extracted
statements; although users did not work directly with
the underlying ontology, arguments could be exported
into XML, RDF, DAML, and OWL. In addition to
the original version, now called Rich Trells, two other
modes, Tree and Table Trellis, described in [41], are
now supported, for incremental formalization.

In Rich Trellis, statements are given likelihood-
qualifiers such ‘surprise’ (indicating the analyst’s sub-
jective reaction); reliability-qualifiers such as ‘com-
pletely reliable’; and credibility-qualifiers such as
‘possibly true’. Statements may also be associated
with a document providing evidence. The source for
each document, including creator, publisher, date, and
format, is recorded. Originally, in Rich Trellis, users

 

26nttp://www.isi.edu/ikcap/trellis/

page xvii). Users can vote on and rate topics, and watch
particular conversations Only one user, the original ar-
guer, modifies the map; feedback comes in critiques
attached to each premise and conclusion (Figure 53(b)
on page xvii), which can be rebutted. One unique as-
pect of TruthMapping is that users can continually
modify each contribution, but can only post one cri-
tique on each node. This is designed to make it easier
to contribute a persistent comment to the discussion,
which can not be drowned out by a single opponent.
The system indicates when comments are out of sync,
and a wiki-style history is available. Another unique
aspect is the use of votes to color the map: as shown in
Figure 53(a) on page xvii, each node is colored based
on the percentage of votes agreeing (green) and dis-
agreeing (red).

A.37. Videolyzer

Videolyzer!? [50] allows the general public to have

sensemaking and argumentative discussions about the
quality of online videos. It builds on gamelike-creation
of video transcripts and on machine tagging of areas
of interest in either the transcript (claim verbs, peo-
ple, money, and comparison) or the video itself (faces)
(Figure 54(a) on page xvii), to provide an integrated
discussion forum for annotating and challenging the
claims a video makes (Figure 54(b) on page xvii).
Videolyzer is unique in its focus on integrating argu-
mentative discussion into a video platform.

 

Qhetp://www.truthmapping.com/
P8http: //videolyzer.com/
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web xvii

  

Statenents

Statement me

 

i atingn 1B)
select a

 

 

wae

(a)

Hide

Statements Critiques:

ema

Genetic mutations do eccur in biological organisms that possess a genetic code.
Further, these mutations can be beneficial, harmful, or irrelevant to the ability of a
mutated organism to reproduce and pass on Its genes.

~~~ select ~~ |i

CRITIQUE by rkm (cl), Mar 18, 2006, 6:55pm GMT EI xX 4

Mutations of genes, as I understand It, are not a significant factor in
evolution. Most mutations are dysfunctional, often leading to the death of
the individual. The significant factor in evolution Is the recombination of
existing genes. Changing conditions can change the relative survival rate of
different characteristics, leading to a gradual shift in the species.

7

| Agree

| Disagree
-- specific disagreement —
generalization
misplaced authority
red herring
straw man
begs the question
false analogy
personal attack

[report as inappropriate]

(b)

2) FROM 1ITFOLLOWS THAT: @ E14
The genetic mutations of biological organism
differ from those that existed in the past. Oy

Fig. 53. Truthmapping (a) allows users to construct an argument by laying out premises and conclusions. Each node is colored based on the
percentage of agreement (green) and disagreement (red). (b) Each premise and conclusion can be critiqued in comments, and critiques can be

responded to with rebuttals.

end en

 

(a)

Tr Highlight comparisons

vj Claim Verbs |_| People |v Money ,

 

You save each year for important things like
retirement and college. But you probably didn't
know that lawsuits are forcing your family to pay
thirty five hundred dollars more each year for
everyday goods and services. Some trial lawyers
are exploiting our courts using frivolous lawsuits to
make millions. Every family pays the price. Some

would, say it's almost criminal. Lawsuit abuse it's a
national problem. See where your state ranks

(b)

Fig. 54. Videolyzer (a) allows users to comment on the points made in a video; and (b) algorithmically determines segments of possible interest
to help focus the discussion: in the transcript these are claim verbs and comparisons as well as mentions of people and money, and in the video

these are peoples’ faces.

B. Matrix Comparison of Tools

We now present comparison charts of the tools re-
viewed. Figure 55 on page xxi shows an overall com-
parison, in which tools are compared according to var-
ious features, which we outline shortly. For the down-
loadable tools, Figure 56 on page xxii provides the li-
cense, programming language(s) and data storage. In

both tables, we use ‘?’ to indicate that we could not
locate a piece of information.

First, we record the intended purpose of the tool.
Next we provide the representation style and func-
tional type. As introduced in Section 9.3, page 23, rep-
resentation style is drawn from linear, threaded, graph,
container, and matrix (including combinations of these
styles); functional type is drawn from issue network-
ing, funnelling, and reputation. Then we indicate what
xviii

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

ArgDF

Arguehow

Argument Blogging

Argumentum

Argumentations.com

 

Create argumentation

Distill the best points

Enable argumentative

Gather and use news

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Purpose schemes on the Web to amine ond responses on the Web pee oe ei stories
Representation style Text Linear Argument Map Threaded Threaded
Functional type Issue networking Reputation Issue networking Reputation Issue networking
Advanced visualization (from AIF) - - - Tag spheres
Perspective’ Single Single Single Single Single
Distributed architecture: N N Y N N
Downloadable or hosted] Hosted, downloadable Hosted Combination Hosted Hosted
Registration Site-specific Site-specific No login Soogle, foc) Site-specific
Twitter
oo . "Addthis" plugin for Blogs and publishing Argumentum Facebook
3rd party services integration a .
sharing platforms App
Social networking capability a So er a Compare users De en
history history
Stable URLs ? Y ? Y Y
Tags’ N N N Y
Bookmarklet N N Y Y N
Promote embedding N N N Y N
Attach media N N Y N N
Input methods Form-based Form-based HTML eae “orm-based, depends
on type on type
Consistency checking Use AIF tools N N N N
Credibility metrics N Y N Y Y
Export formats’ AIF None ? None None
(a)
AGORA: Participate- . a .
. Argunet Avicenna bCisiveOnline Belvedere
Deliberate
Express arguments in Support secondary

Purpose

Visualize debates

Sketch and share
argument maps

OWL to enable
classification

Real-time collaboration

for decision-making

school students learn
critical inquiry skills

 

Representation style

Argument Map

Argument Map

Argument Map

Argument Map

Argument Map*

 

Functional type

Issue networking

Issue networking

Issue networking

Issue networking,

Issue networking

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

funelling
Advanced visualization - Map associated items - - Concept map, matrix
Perspective Single Personal Single Single Single
Distributed architecture N Y N N N
Downloadable or hosted Combination Hosted, downloadable Hosted Hosted Downloadable
Registration - Site-specific Site-specific -
3rd party services integration - a plugin ioe - Skype -
sharing
Social networking capability - SD ae nouser - Lists Skype usernames -
profiles
Stable URLs - Y ? Y ?
Tags N ¥ N N N
Bookmarklet N N N N N
Promote embedding N Y N Y N
Attach media N N N Y Y
Input methods’ Visual controls Visual controls Visual controls Visual controls Visual controls
Consistency checking N N Use AIF tools N N
Credibility metrics N N N N N
Export formats None Locally stored AIF PowerPoint ?

 

(b)
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

Cabanac's Annotation
System

Competing

Climate CoLab
Hypotheses

Cohere Consider It ‘ConviceMe

Sensemaking of Understand the

Collective intelligence © Connect and share Analysis and cross-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Purpose arguments in . . . pros/cons behind your _ Have fun debating
. on climate change ideas checking an
annotations opponents’ opinions
Representation style Threaded Threaded Argument Map Matrix Container Container
Functional type Funelling Reputation Issue networking Funelling Issue networking Reputation
Sort by the most likely Show points accordin
Advanced visualization - - Map, timeline y uv E e
hypotheses to who holds them
Perspective’ Personal Single Personal Personal Single Single
Distributed architecture N N N Y N N
Downloadable or hosted Hosted Hosted Hosted, downloadable Hosted, downloadable Hosted, downloadable Hosted
Registration Site-specific Facebook Site-specific Site-specific Facebook Facebook
RSS, Send te Find Facebook, RSS, Send t
3rd party services integration - Facebook like en reas ° Find us on Twitter ind us on aceboo en een °
Twitter Twitter Facebook, Twitter
. . as . . . Persistent chat, Attribution, but no Forum discussions,
Social networking capability - Discussion, profiles Groups, profiles. . 7
message board user profiles user profiles
Stable URLs N Y Y Y Y ¥
Tags N N Y N N Y
Bookmarklet N N Y N N N
Promote embedding N N Y N N Y
Not in argument ma
Attach media’ N . E . D URLs only N N N
discussions
. Form-based, some .
Input methods Visual controls - Form-based Form-based Visual controls Form-based
HTML and Wiki
Consistency checking Y N N Y N N
Credibility metrics Y Y N N N ¥
Export formats ? None None None None None
(c)
CoPE_IT CreateDebate Debate.org Debategraph Debatepedia Debatewise
Help groups
e-Learning, K-12 education, Meet people through DET Clarify public debate, | Help make informed

Purpose’

collaborate on

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Collaboration Debating debate . engage citizens decisions
complex issues
Argument Map, . . Argument Map, + ,
Representation style 8 P Container Linear 8 P Container Container
Threaded Threaded
Functional type: Funelling Reputation Reputation Issue networking Issue networking Reputation
. is Automatically Summary graphs and Automatically change
Advanced visualization . . a - . - -
formalize the view statistics the view
Perspective’ Personal Single Single Single Single Single
Distributed architecture N N N N N N
Downloadable or hosted] Hosted, downloadable Hosted Hosted Hosted Hosted Hosted
Registration OpenID Site-specific Site-specific Site-specific Site-specific OpenID
Import phpNuke API, pull in external
oo. / port pip! uP Facebook like, Post to . RSS, poston Facebook, "Addthis" plugin for
3rd party services integration webforums, RSS feeds, Facebook RSS, email

Twitter, Send email Twitter, Delicious, Digg sharing, Facebook like

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Compendium maps fanpage
Social networking capability Groups oS ene) ete) Extensive user profiles User profiles ea Cea od -
enemies history
Stable URLs N Y ¥ Y Y Y
Tags Y Y - N N N
Bookmarklet N Y N N N N
Promote embedding N Y N Y N N
Attach media u See embedded nT ae embedded 7 A
videos only videos only
Input methods]Form-based, WYSIWYG Form-based, WYSIWYG Text with HTML Form-based Wiki formatting Form-based, Wiki-style
Consistency checking N N N N N N
Credibility metrics N Y ¥ N N Y
Export formats’ None None None None None None

 

oy)
XX

Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

DiscourseDB

Collect opinions of

Dispute Finder

Discover what's widely

HyperNews LivingVoice Opinion Space

Argumentative Web "An up-to-date record

Online Visualization or

Arguments

Analyze and diagram

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Purpose] commentators and disputed when forum with an email of what we believe and Exchange perspectives
journalists browsing the Web gateway why we believe it" arguments
Representation style Container - Threaded Argument Map - Argument Map
Functional type Reputation Reputation SS Orne) Issue networking Reputation Issue networking
discussion
Advanced visualization - De eee - - Cees pineal . (from AIF)
sentences component analysis
Perspective’ Single Personal Single Single Personal Personal
Distributed architecture N N Y N N N
Downloadable or hosted Hosted Combination Hosted, downloadable Hosted Hosted Hosted
Registration Site-specific No login Site-specific Site-specific Site-specific No login
3rd party services integration - Facebook - AddtoAny plugin - -
Social networking capability nae ood Profiles Discussion-based Ne onsdnae Rate comments -
history opinions.
Stable URLs Y N Y Y N Y
Tags| N N N N N N
Bookmarklet N N N N N Y
Promote embedding N N N N N N
Attach media’ Y N N N N N
Roll-over text in user
Input methods Wiki formatting mode, Form-based for Form-based Form-based Form-based Visual controls
activist
Consistency checking N N N N N Use AIF tools
Credibility metrics N Y N Y ¥ N
Export formats’ RDF None None None ArgDB, AIF
(e)
Parmenides PDOnline REASON Riled Up! SEAS Trellis
Get feedback on oe . . Debate & discuss;
Purpose proposals for e- ppeed aan SE Dieematon show that you're an Intelligence analysis Analysis
oo communication pooling . .
participation authority on a topic
Representation style’ Argument Map Threaded epee Container Multiple Linear
Threaded
Functional type Funelling Reputation Funelling Reputation Funelling Funelling
. oo. Analysis toolset uses Starburst,
Advanced visualization - - - . -
Value-based Constellation
Perspective’ Personal Single Personal Single Personal Single
Distributed architecture N N Y N ¥ N
Downloadable or hosted Hosted Hosted Hosted Hosted Hosted, downloadable Downloadable
Registration No login Site-specific Site-specific Site-specific Site-specific Site-specific
—_ / Taktolrscchosrpere! Digg, Delicious, Reddit,
3rd party services integration . - Yahoo!, Google, - -
Twitter
Stumble
Social networking capability Profiles, comments Discussion Profiles, comments -
Stable URLs Y Y N Y ? ?
Tags) N N N ¥ N N
Bookmarklet N N N N N N
Promote embedding N N N N N N
Attach media’ N Y N N N URLs only
Input methods Form-based Form-based Visual controls Form-based Form-based Form-based
Consistency checking Y, in admin view N N N ? N
Credibility metrics N Y N Y ¥ Y
Argument Markup
Export formats’ ? None None None None

 

Language, HTML, Word

 
Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web xxi

TruthMapping Videolyzer

 

Purpose

Overcome "loudest Collaboratively
voice" and "last word" evaluate online videos

 

Argument Map,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Representation style Threaded Threaded
Functional type Funelling Issue networking
. oo Shows % agreement
Advanced visualization . -
and disagreement
Perspective Single Single
Distributed architecture N N
Downloadable or hosted Hosted Hosted
Registration Site-specific Site-specific
3rd party services integration = =
Social networking capability Discussion Discussion
Stable URLs] Y Y
Tags| N ¥
Bookmarklet N N
Promote embedding N N
Attach media N URLs only
Input methods] Form-based Form-based
Consistency checking N N
Credibility metrics Y Y
Export formats] None None

 

(g)

Fig. 55. Overall Comparison of Tools.

sort of advanced visualization is offered; ‘-’ indicates
that no examples were found (i.e. that the question
does not apply). The perspective row records whether
an individual user has a personal perspective distinct
from the group view. Next we consider whether a tool
has a distributed architecture (allowing multiple copies
to synch with one another).

Then we distinguish downloadable and hosted sys-
tems (noting that some tools are in both categories or
use a combined method). To understand their current
integration with the Social Web, we record whether
they use a site-specific login, or allow external creden-
tials (such as OpenID, Twitter, or Facebook).

We further indicate whether they have any integra-
tion with third party services; a single row does not
do justice to the wide range of integration we found.
For tools with social networking capabilities, we pro-
vide an example of the interaction users can have with
each other, or the information they can find out about
each other. Stable URLs indicates our success in find-
ing reusable bookmarks: in fact these URLs can be
at multiple granularities, such as the entire argument
map, issue, or conversation; each individual comment
or critique; etc.

We also indicate, in the tags row, whether users
can provide tags for content. We also indicate which
tools have a bookmarklet for use while browsing, and
which promote embedding on external sites. The re-
maining rows describe features related to the site’s in-
teraction style, starting with whether it is possible to
attach media in discussions and the input type (such as
point and click visual controls or form-based editing).
We also indicate which have consistency checking (i.e.
avoiding obvious contradictions) and credibility met-
rics (usually, but not always, voting) as well as export
capabilities. Tools which export AIF can take advan-
tage of an existing infrastructure.

Overall, we can make certain observations regarding
these tools: generally they focus either on encourag-
ing discussion or having a basis in rigorous argumen-
tation models. Significant amounts of innovation has
occurred in the research community, but many ideas
have not been propagated to the Social Web at large.
There are certain common mechanisms among many
systems—basic features such as upvoting, segregating
pro and cons, etc. Social Web systems do not have even
levels of adoption: some tools are very well-adopted
while others are not.
xxii Schneider et al. / A Review of Argumentation for the Social Semantic Web

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

License Language Data storage
ArgDF ? PHP Sesame
. Python, Django,
Argument Bloggin ? AIFDB
6 6emne Javascript, Jquery
Argunet Open source Java Db40
Avicenna] Author copyright Java ae ARQ, SQL Server DB
bCisiveOnline Commercial Python, Django ?
Cohere LGPL PHP MySQL
Competing Hypotheses GPL v3 PHPS MySQL
Considerit AGPL v3 Ruby on Rails ?
CoPe_IT Various C#, .NET MSS SQL Server 2005
Dispute Finder Apache Ey, ruby Scala, MS SQL Server
HyperNews MIT Perl Document directory
Commercial, Free to
, ? ?
SEAS US Gov, ? ?
Trellis GPL Perl ?

 

 

Fig. 56. Downloadable tools: License, language, and data storage.
