Hey there how was your weekend?
Hey, yeah it was good, hung out with friends, went to the movies and then dinner...How about you, how was your weekend?
It was good, just hung out with me parent, we had a bit of a road trip, family dinner...it was good..What movie did you guys go see?
Weekend with the parents..Nice..Um yeah we went to see that new Wonder Women movie.
Ooooo..Nice, I heard good things, How was it?
It was good...well, As good as a superhero movie can be but yeah I like it...
What do you mean, as good as a Superhero movie can get?
Well, it's not going to to put you in deep thought or win any awards but for an action movie it was good.
Oh, I see..did it get you that "Girl Power" feeling, how was the actual Wonder Women?
Oh, yeah...Well I didn't go into it with ang fiminist expectations but some of the fighting seems made me proud to be female..the actrist did a really good job portraying Wonder Woman.
Nice, how were the fight scenes, heard they were epic.
Oh, yeah they were good...My favorite was the first fight scene when just Wonder Woman in the war scene, was the first time you get to really see what Wonder Woman has to offer but the first fight scene with the Amazons was also really good..
Oooo, Nice, so looks like I know what I'm going to be doing this Friday.
Yeah, it's worth a watch...I think they did a good job with making Wonder Woman strong but giving her a sense of Naivety, gave her some innocents but they did it in a really good way..
Oh really..does it get to lovy dovy
A bit...of course there's a love interest but its good..they don't just make the guy look like some dumb dube, some weak man that Wonder Woman has to keep saving...they play off each other..
Ok, so no Man bashing?
Yeah, not really...it was interesting..has some funny bits..like when Wonder woman is explaining where she came from and how crazy it actually sounds to just a normal everyday person.
Ok, ok, you sold it..will be seeing it this Friday.
Yeah..again not amazing but still a really good SuperHero movie..Let me know what you think.
