Have you ever bet on the NFL?
Yeah a bunch of times.
Which team’s chances are being the most underrated by your Superbowl futures? Most overrated?
Teams like the Patriots that are good every year are a little overrated because of public perception. Teams like the Browns or Raiders are typically underrated because of their lack of past success and progression. Odds don’t always reflect the chances of a team winning…they reflect the public perception of those chances. Those can be two very different things.
What is one factor in NFL betting that you think bettors undervalue?
They undervalue certain numbers in NFL. 7 and 3 are incredibly important. The jump from 7 to 8 is bigger than the jump from 8 to 10. The higher the number, the less value.
It’s what they overrate: Especially the delusion that a team who finished last year strongly is sure to pick up where they left off
Generally right. Every team has different personnel year in year out. Have to judge the current personnel. Other teams will improve. The biggest thing is adjustments.
What is your maximum limit in NFL?
I guess you could say we don’t have one because the more volume we see the higher limits will go, but typically, our base max is $30,000, with marquee games and volume often sending it higher. For example, tonight’s game is already at $50,000.
What’s your thoughts on the rookie QB’s? Will Jacksonville & Minnesota be rated higher or lower when Bortles & Bridgewater come in?
it’s really hard to say right now. As important as a QB is, it’s still based on team performance. There has to be a reason the QB is coming in. It may not have as much of an effect as you’d think.
What is your biggest week 1 liability?
I can tell you guys a lot, but I can’t tell you that
How come you don’t offer player props?
General interest. There’s not enough interest for every game. If we found it was there, we’d start offering them.
If you were betting NFL, which experts would you follow/listen to?
I listen to analysts. Sports analysts, not betting guys. Analysts know about injuries, and the up-close info on teams. That’s where the value is in evaluating a team.
Analysts are often generators of public perception.
It’s up to you to decipher the information from the analyst. That’s where value is. Using multiple sources helps too.
