I'm really looking forward to these conference final series.
Me too, i can't wait for them to start.
When does the next round of games start?
The Western series starts friday, the eastern series begins saturday.
Oh; thanks.   who do you think will win these series?
Well, in the east, i'm pretty confident that pittsburgh will beat ottawa.  in the west, i'm really not sure.  how about you?
I agree with you about Pittsburgh; they just keep winning big games.  In the west, i have a feeling Nashville will get by Anaheim.
That's interesting.  Why do you feel that way?
It just looks like they are on a roll.  They swept Chicago, and then they won all their home games against St. Louis.  That's pretty impressive.
True, but their lack of experience in the playoffs may hurt them.  This is the furthest this team has ever advanced in the playoffs.
You're right, but i'm not really sure if Anaheim is a true Stanley Cup type of team.  I know they're good, but look how close they got to being eliminated by Edmonton; that was really a tough series for them.
No doubt about that; Edmonton put up quite a fight.
What's your opinion on the situation with the Capitals? I mean, they are a strange team; always so good in the regular season, only to lose in the playoffs year after year.
You're right.  It will be interesting to see if they trade some of the big name players who simply can't produce when the games are real important.
Although, to be fair, Washington got a real tough break in having to face PIttsburgh so early in the playoffs.
That's an excellent point.  The N.H.L. playoff system is absurd; the Caps and Pens were the top 2 teams in the regular season; for them to play each other in the second round is just plain silly.
I know; the league is so interested in division rivalries, that they didn't think this out.  they probably didn't anticipate something like this could happen.
Well, i'm certainly looking forward to these Conference Final games, and of course there's nothing as exciting as the Cup FInals.
I know; next to the Super Bowl; i think the Cup Finals is my favorite sports events.  Enjoy the games!
You too; best wishes and let's hope for some real exciting, overtime games!
