What do you think the Bruins should do with Zdeno Chara as he enters the twilight of his career?
Well, he can't be on the ice against top forwards for first pairing minutes anymore. He's lost a step and it shows in his game.
I think they take the captain title away from him and give it to Patrice Bergeron. He's really been the heart of the team.
They wouldn't do that because part of the reason Z signed in Boston is because they offered him the C on his jersey!
Now that Claude is gone and Cassidy is opening up the offense with the younger players, they need a defense that can move the puck in transition...
I agree with you there, but the answer isn't to dump Chara. He can be a shutdown defenseman on a second pairing.
Who are they going to put on the first pair? I don't think any of their young guys are ready.. Maybe McAvoy.
Yeah, he showed flashes in the playoffs last year.
Put him with Brandon Carlo on a top pairing, that's your future right there.
Then you have Chara and Miller on the second pairing. Don Sweeney has some good depth with the draft picks and prospects!
I think a good target for the team next year would be 95 points and a second round appearance in the playoffs. But they won't get there unless they trade Rask!
You're out of your mind... Rask is a top 5 goaltender in the league...
He chokes in the playoffs! He's the only goalie to blow a 3 game lead in Bruins' history.
The team collapsed in front of him that year against the Fliers. They wouldn't have made the playoffs last season without Rask.
They could have kept Martin Jones and sent Tuuka to the Sharks. He makes like half the salary for the same performance..
I don't think anybody saw Jones coming, but he's either going to fizzle out or eventually want to be paid like a top-end goalie. Then you're back at square one.
Tuuka is trash...
He has one of the highest save percentages in the league and leads the NHL in shutouts like every year!
I still hate Montreal though...
Okay, that I can agree with you on.
