This year's theme for the 2017 Met Gala was Japanese fashion designer Rei Kawakubo's vision of Comme des Garçons.
Yes, Rihanna, who is known for embracing the Met Gala themes in their entirety stunned in an avant-garde Comme des Garçons outfit with lace up sandals by Dsquared 2.
My favorite look of the night was Gigi Hadid's asymmetrical Tommy Hilfiger gown.
The dress embraced the masculine tailoring and structure of Comme des Garçons on one side and was sultry and elegant on the other.
The champagne color of the Hilfiger dress really complemented her olive skin tone.
My favorite look of the night was Blake Lively's feathered Versace gown.  This dress was made for her!
The two-toned indigo feather fish-tail train gave this dress a spectacular flair.
She reminded me of an exotic bird as she graced the red carpet.
I was really disappointed at the Kardashian's and the Jenner's this year.  None of the dresses they chose met the theme nor were they showstoppers.
I actually think that Kim Kardashian-West was a bit under dressed this year.  She wore a white corseted Vivienne Westwood gown and strappy sandals which was a far cry from the sparkling silver Balmain gown she wore in 2016.
I liked Kylie Jenner's pink floral illlusion dress, but it is a look that we've seen hundreds of time before.  There was nothing original about it.
But that wasn't the biggest fail of the evening.  Madonna's camo Moschino gown stood out for all the wrong reasons.  It wasn't a fashion moment.
The camo gown was just a poor choice and it didn't fit the moment.  I can't think of an event where a camo dress is haute couture.
Katy Perry's Maison Margiela gown was a miss as well.
I think the saying goes, "too many accessories clutter an outfit."  This look had bad horror film written all over it.
My other favorite looks of the night were Rita Ora's red Marchesa gown and Zendaya really stunned in the gorgeous satin Dolce & Gabbana off the shoulder gown.
The hair, the makeup, Rita Ora definitely stole the show!
She was an elegantly wrapped feast for the eyes even though her dress didn't really gel with the theme.
This was a complicated theme so many guests just aimed for their best fashion.
I agree.  Now, I can't wait until next years' Met Gala!
