Did you see the stunning dresses at the MET Gala this year?
Yes, I Absolutely adored Selena Gomez's white long gown with the knee slit, absolutely gorgeous!
I agree. My favorite had to be Katy Perry, though. She shocked everyone in that red dreary veil and custom crimson Galliano coat.
Yes, that outfit was definitely inspiring. What also caught my eye was Bella Hadid in a tight black crystal embellished jumpsuit custom made by Alexander Wang.
Yes! Her body looked amazing in the skin tight jumpsuit and the black high heels to match were to die for!
Absolutely, although I was also not impressed by someone who I look forward to seeing every year, Kate Hudson. She is a vision in the white flowing gown she wore by Stella McCartney but she has done this look before.
I agree. I feel that every time I see her on a carpet she is wearing a white gown. How about the men? I thought Donald Glover's Burberry suit was both elegant and sophisticated.
Yes, it was. Burberry was a popular choice that night. Matt Smith also wore a Burberry suit with an eccentric tie that looked Victorian-like but impressive.
Another one of my least favorites was Gwyneth Paltrow who wore a simple and tight one shoulder pill dress by Calvin Klein.
I agree, it was a boring choice. Her black shoes definitely clashed with the tight pink and non-flattering dress she wore.
How about Joe Jonas in custom H&M? He looked debonair as he posed in the red and black stripe finely fitted suit.
Yes, he definitely dressed to impress! I loved how him and Lena Dunham matched since they both wore red!
I saw the picture they took together, it was hilarious. Her long red strapless gown was the exact same red as his suit. It was meant to be.
Someone who also wowed me was Kendall Jenner who showed up in a barely there gown with a black sash on the front and see-through back.
Yes, it was very risqué but what we expected. Her sister Kylie Jenner stunned in custom Versace in the platinum colored gown she wore.
Yes, even matching with Donatella Versace herself. They both wore metallic gowns.
Yes, I was not expecting that duo. We have to talk about Rihanna's gown which was  a pure piece of art.
Yes, she was a vision. I was surprised that small balls attached to her did not fall off as she was walking, I do not know how she kept it on the entire night!
Yes, Rihanna's gown looked extremely uncomfortable and unwearable.
I agree, but I saw pictures of her at her after party where she changed into a more comfortable jeans and white t-shirt.
