Do you like wearing dresses in the summer time?
Absolutely. I love chiffon dresses. Anything yellow or blue from Forever 21 is beautiful.
I'm not a big fan of Forever 21 anymore. I think their clothing is cheaply made. Plus I heard they don't pay their employees well.
Well, that doesn't bother me. I love cheap clothing. I just bought a red A-line dress from them.
I actually prefer Ann Taylor. I think their clothing is more sophisticated. I'm going there this weekend to get a lovely sheath dress for work.
Oooh that does sound lovely. I love sheath dresses because they always look so professional!
Yes, anything classic cut or with a collar and buttons looks professional. Did you know Forever 21 does have professional-looking button ups for sale?
Haha, you're really trying to convince me to shop there huh? It's quite alright, I do go there sometimes for basics. Like I get my tank tops from there.
See! I knew you would give in eventually. Hey when do you plan to go shopping this weekend? I would love to go with you.
I'm planning to go on Saturday morning. I have other things going on later in the day. Will you be able to come with? You can give me feedback on the sheath dress?
I think I should be able to make a Saturday morning shopping trip. Gosh, sometimes I wish I made more money so I can shop at more expensive stores - like Coach or something.
I thought you like cheap fashion?
I do! It's just that sometimes it might be nice to spoil myself with a beautiful Chanel dress or something.
Right?! I would love a Chanel suit. I sure do admire the classic Chanel jacket look.
And since we can't afford those labels, we will just stick to mall labels. I'm fine with that. As long as I have clothes on my body.
Maybe if we start saving money slowly we can each treat ourselves to a lovely designer label dress or outfit. I've always admired runway labels like Zuhair Murad.
I know! His designer gowns are soooo dreamy and whimsical. Wedding dress caliber!
I would love a bespoke Zuhair Murad gown. If I were a rich celebrity, I would support him 100%.
You can try to marry a rich celebrity and then grow your wardrobe?
Haha, yes and you can do that too so you can move away from the cheap fashion!
