In your opinion, what is the most infamous dress worn by a celebrity at a red carpet event?
The green Versace dress that Jennifer Lopez wore to the 2000 Grammys.
At the time that dress created quite a controversy, but now it seems like severely low-cut dresses are commonplace.
What about when Courtney Love accidentally wore a Chanel knock-off to Paris Hilton's birthday party?
She was so embarrassed she wrote a letter of apology to Chanel, and later appeared in an article in Harper's Bazaar with the headline, "I'd rather go naked than wear fake Chanel."
I would like to see Courtney Love appear as a guest on one of these fashion reality shows.
Project Runway is one of the longest running, highly acclaimed reality shows out there.  Tim Gunn is such a beloved part of the show and a great mentor to the contestants.
I love the thoughtful fashion advice he gives in Marie Claire.
Does Marie Claire also have a column about plus-size fashion tips?
Yes, it's called "Fashion Advice for Curvy Women,"!
It's nice to see the majority of women represented in fashion magazines for once.
Ashley Nell Tipton was the winner of Project Runway season 14.  Not only was she the first contestant to show a plus-size collection, but she was the first contestant to win the grand prize with a plus-size collection.
It was so refreshing!  It's so nice to know that curvy girls can wear cute clothes too.  It's depressing to walk into most retail stores and see the tiniest sections dedicated to plus-size clothes.
And the clothes aren't very cute usually.
No, they're always off-the-shoulder or sheer-shoulder designs, or huge, flowing tunic tops that feel like tents.
Why can't plus-size fashion just look like regular fashion, but in bigger sizes?
I wish it wasn't called plus-size fashion at all, but simply, "fashion".  Ashley Nell Tipton bringing bigger women to the mainstream has made me more hopeful.
We have come a long way from Janice Dickinson refusing to interview any plus-size models for her show.
The bottom line is, in order to keep the fashion industry fresh and relevant, the majority of women need to be represented.
Maybe Tyra Banks will do a new season of America's Next Top Model, but with plus-size models!
