In my personal opinion, fashion is not a bad thing.
I totally agree with you, a fashionable person looks smart and usually attractive.
Unfortunately some people spend too much time on choosing their clothing or makeup rather than to focus on other important things.
It is important to keep priorities, nevertheless a fashion done within a limits is certainly something positive.
It is important though to remember that fashion does not only relate to clothing.
But clothing is the most significant aspect of the fashion, thats why during very important events celebrities try to look as attractive as possible.
Yes, you are right, however some of them are taking the fashion too extreme when trying to grab reporters` attention.
This is because fashion is now adopted everywhere. The celebrities are the ones who are an example for different people to what is currently fashionable.
Well, I agree with you. Students for instance tend to spend all morning to make sure they will follow the latest fashion, oftenly forgeting about the rest of the world.
But remember that fashion also gives them a sense of individuality. It allows them to express their inner selves.
You mean that girls wear colorful dresses like for instance, beautiful butterflied?
This is exactly what I meant. In addition, boys also try to do their best to look like famous actors.
But in that situation, people do not express their inner selves, but try to become someone they really like.
I guess you are actually right, but remember that some people will follow and some people will lead in terms of fashion. There will always be someone to express their fashion which then other people will copy. Fashion sells relaly well, therefore celebrities try to stand out of the rest, even when it means to be the topic of controversion.
Once you have mentioned the controversion. What do you think of women who cut off all their hair in order to be bald, or who pierce their bodies in a multiple places.
I do think that this is an element of perosnal fashion, but as we have said before, there has to be a limit. If a woman decides to shave a part of their head and knows why, it should look quite attractive, same goes for piercing.
I agree with you about the limits in terms these fashion areas, in my personal opinion too much piercing decrease the natural beauty of the person significantly and may even cause some health problem, like infections.
Yes, some people do not understand the risks and take anything that stands in their way of being fashionable.
How about jewelry, I see that you wear a diamond necklace. Do you think jewelry is also an important part of fashion?
Jewelery hmm? I wear this particular necklace because i stronly believe that it outlines the aspect of luxury as a part of my fashion. There are different types of jewerly like bracelets or even jewelry based on piercing. I think it is extremely important to add tiny jewerly aspects to our personal fashion styles.
