And Jessica Lange's gold earrings and necklace accented her Vera Wang little black cocktail dress greatly.
Yes! Correct it was a stunning dress and appropriate for her age, makes her look beautiful.
Now lets see oh! There's Denzel Washington standing by Chris Rock in their Versace tailored black suits with gold  suit cufflinks.
Oh! yes but Denzel Washington did look very sexy in that fitted Versace tailored black suit.
Who was the best dressed in Red at this year Oscars for the ladies?
I am not sure but I love Emma Watson flowing Red gown by Prada she looked hot.
And there's another actress whom we haven't seen on the red carpet in years.
Yes! I see its a blast from the past the lovely Linda Carter who played wonder woman and in her shimmering gold strapless dress.
Love Linda Carter's gold dress and its by designer Oscar de la Renta.
Do you see Matt Damon now on the red carpet talking with Linda Carter in a fine silk gray suit by Ralph Lauren with black silk tie.
Yes! I see Matt and with his wife in a stunning classic sky blue evening gown by Vera Wang with beautiful diamond earrings.
Look fashion alert!  its katie Perry in that horrible green dress and it looks like green vomit a fashion No No.
I agree and did Katie truly looked in the mirror before coming here.
I guest not and on now the red carpet its Taylor Swift in a sexy silver strapless two-piece design by Prada and she always looked great.
I agree you can't go wrong with Prada and that diamond necklace Taylor wearing is lovely as well.
I see Tom Cruise coming up on the red carpet talking to Ms. Swift in a silk dark forest suit with a silk black tie by designer Versace.
Oh! to me Tom Cruise does look great in everything he wears no matter the designer.
Well I saw Tom Cruise ex-wife Katie Holmes a while ago and she also looks stunning in Ralph Lauren simple black evening gown.
Its almost close to starting time for the Oscar awards and there's a bad fashion alert!
I see what you mean its that ugly floral garden print Goldie Hawn is wearing. We say goodbye and enjoy the Oscars.
