What are your must have items for summer this year?
I really want a shorts jumper, I saw Kim Kardashian wearing it, so trendy!
Yes, I think I saw her in that too, looks very cute dressed up or down!
I saw in Vogue Magazine that stripes and bold prints were all over the runway, and also the jumpsuits like you mentioned.
I've also been noticing a lot of people dressing up sportswear lately.
So true!! Kate Hudson made her own line of fashionable sportswear I keep seeing the commercial for it.
I have a pair of matching leggings and tank from her, its called Fabletics, super cute and not too expensive.
I like the whole idea of being comfortable enough to get all my daily things done but not looking dumpy in sweats. Im going to check it out online tonight.
I feel like every store I walk into at the mall has their own line of sports wear now, everything looks very feminine and tailored.
What is the one trend this year that you refuse to wear?
Chunky shoes!! These were popular when I was a teenager but I just feel they are too clunky, especially since I am tall and full figured.
That make sense, chunky shoes are not for everyone! What shoes do you like then?
I love a pretty jeweled sandal. I can wear them with a fancy dress or with jeans, I like a shoe that can take me from day to night. Plus then I feel like I get my moneys worth.
What do you think of Melanie Trumps fashion? Money is no object there!
Honestly, I think her fashion sense is amazing! She went from Victoria Secrets Angel to a stunning first lady!
She recently wore a white eyelet dress by Giambattista Valli, it was so simple and elegant.
She really picks the right wardrobe for the occasion, never misses a beat!
Now with summer coming, Im curious to see how she will still dress appropriate in the heat. She is tasteful though, so I have no doubt.
Another celebrity whose fashion I adore is Miley Cyrus. I know she is not typically an icon, but she is just so different than everyone else.
I'm going to check out a photo gallery of her online, because I don't think Ive seen too much of her fashion style, and I love getting new ideas.
