I don't like the way younger people dress these days?
Why do you say that?
I think they are immodest and show too much skin.
Do you really think they're that different than the previous generation?
They probably are only slightly more immodest in the way they dress than the previous generation,
I think the previous generation showed just as much skin. Our culture is constantly pushing us to dress sexy.
That's true. Teens are taught to glamorize the way celebrities dress without realizing that the average person dressing that way could be harassed or get into trouble.
I don't think all current fashion is bad. I really like the uneven hemline trend in tops, dresses and skirts.
I do too. And I think the cold shoulder trend is cute without being overly sexy or exposing too much skin.
I never thought skinny jeans would come back into style! They're unflattering and uncomfortable for most people.
A different trand that I dislike is the trend of wearing sweats, scrubs, yoga pant, leggings or even pajamas constantly. A lot of people don't take any effort to make themselves look nice.
I sort of agree. We should take pride in our appearance, but overall we need to focus less on appearance and more on the content of the character of the person.
You know what trend I think is funny? In ads for men's clothes, they're starting to make the men pose in more and more ridiculous ways, the way they do women.
It is funny to see a guy advertising a suit, standing in the rain with an unopened umbrella, or laying on the floor in a warehouse.
But the same pressure women have felt to be as thin as fashion models is also starting to effect men, they think they're supposed to look like fashion models.
People don't understand that fashion advertisements use a lot of tricks: camera angles, photoshop, lighting, makeup, all just to get the perfect shot.
It's unfair that now they photoshop almost every fashion model's picture or celebrities' pictures. They take attractive people and impose impossible standards on them like tiny waists.
I'd like to see a more healthy look in fashion advertising. It would be nice to see models that aren't so impossibly perfect and unrelateable.
I know, I really like the trend of using plus sized models.
EVen though plus sized is really just the size of the average American woman! It should be called real sized.
