Who had the best dress at the Met Ball?
I wouldn't say it was the best, but I think Rhianna had the most interesting outfit. The texture and color was pretty and crazy at the same time!
What about Cara Delevigne Chanel outfit? All that shiny silvery material. What was it made of?
No idea, but what was the thing on head, was it sprayed in her hair or like a skullcap? I don't know what she was thinking.
Did you see Katy Perry in Maison Margiela? The red was totally shocking because the was so much of it.
Yeah, she almost looked like a ghost and flamigo dancer had a baby. I'm not sure that was winner but I did  like the boldness of the red.
I really liked Laura Dern in Gabriela Hearst. It was a beautiful navy gown with cut-outs, very slimming!
Yes, navy is such a good rich classic color. It was great color for her too.
I would not normally say a bird print would be a good idea, but I loved Zendaya in Dolce & Gabbana's off the shoulder, full trained dress was gorgeous!
I would just love to have a dress like that once! You're right, though who would have thought a bird pattern? Parrots at that!
What did you think of the trench coat dress on Priyanka Chopra? Can you believe it was Ralph Lauren? Really dramatic but I kind of liked it.
Yeah, me too. Who would have thought a British khaki at the Met Ball? The collar is what really does it for me.
I also liked the black dress Dakota Johnson was in. Gucci always has something worth mentioning.
Yeah, I liked it too. Cut out seems to big this year. It was a very dramatic dress and probably one of my favorites.
Laura Osnes reminded of that beautiful blue grey dress that Kerry wore in Sex In The City towards the end. The skirt with all that texture that looks like flowers is so beautiful.
I know, right? I even like the shade of pink matched with the black. Normally not a fan, too 80's but this looked really good to me too.
What was Claire Danes thinking? I did not like the weirdly dramatic white top with laced black pants.
Yeah, that outfit was a bust but even worst was her make up. Where did her eyebrows go? Normally she looks great, but I guess she was going for "artsy" being at the Met.
It reminded me of Tracee Ellis Ross in Comme des Garcons thing. What was it a bag or a dress or coat?
Yeah that was totally weird and unflattering but I did like the color. It was almost electric!
