The NFL season starts exactly two months from today!  Are you excited as I am?
I'm getting there!  Which rookie quarterback do you think will have the biggest impact?
I think Deshaun Watson will have a nice rookie season for the Houston Texans!  What about you?
I agree about Watson, but I think Mitchell Trubisky will do well with the Bears if he gets the opportunity.
I don't think Trubisky will do well.  He doesn't have anyone to throw to now that Alshon Jeffrey signed with the Eagles.
That's true.  I don't think he will probably get a lot of playing time with Mike Glennon beginning the year as the starting quarterback.
Exactly.  Who do you think will win rookie of the year?
Leonard Fournette for sure if he can stay healthy.  He will get a lot of touches for the Jaguars and will bust some big plays.
All this talk about the NFL is getting me excited!  Who do you think will win it all?
I think most people would say the New England Patriots will repeat with all their talent and their addition of Brandin Cooks, and I agree with those people.
I think they will be tough to beat, but I think the Atlanta Falcons are going to win it.  I think they are going to be hungry to redeem themselves.  Have you seen the new commercial with Matt Ryan?
Yeah I think they will be right there again at the end.  It should be an exciting season!  What other team are you expecting big things from?
I think the Denver Broncos will have a bounce back season.  I like Trevor Siemian in year two and like a lot of their offseason moves.
I agree!  I love their acquisition of Jamaal Charles.  I think he feels like he has a lot left in the tank and wants to prove all the doubters wrong.
Who is your pick for Most Valuable Player of the upcoming season?
I like Tom Brady again, especially with having Brandin Cooks to throw to.  They are going to make an amazing combination.
I see 20 touchdowns between the two.  I see a second coming of the Tom Brady to Randy Moss connection of old.
That would be great even though I'm not a New England Patriots fan.  I'll be rooting for the Miami Dolphins like usual.
They had a good ending to last season, hopefully they will pick up where they left off.  I think Tannehill will have a nice season.
I sure hope so for my happiness sakes!  I'm getting tired of the Patriots dominating the division.  I can't wait two months for the season to start!
