Hey, are you looking forward to football this fall?
Oh, yeah for sure. It is definitely one of my favorite times of the year. Any picks for who is going to do well this year?
Well, I think the Steelers will be good. And probably the Patriots again. They just seem kind of unstoppable.
Yeah, I know what you mean. Tom Brady is just amazingly good, even though he is getting older.
Yeah, it just seems that you can put any players around him and he can produce big plays and wins.
I think you're right, for sure. I don't know if I am sold on the Steelers though.
How come? I thought you were a big Pittsburgh fan. Plus, they always seem to do pretty well.
Oh no, I still am. And I want them to do well. It's just that for the first time in awhile, I think their shortcomings are really starting to show.
Really? Like where? It seems in some ways, all they can do is go up.
I'm not as sure about that as I once was. I think Big Ben isn't what he used to be, and is really starting to show his age.
Well, I guess I don't totally disagree with that. But, I mean he still produces pretty well, and the Steelers do have some younger talent that is pretty impressive.
Oh, no, you're right about that. It's just that they have always been a real "leadership-needy" kind of team to me, and if a lot of that leadership comes from Ben, and he is starting to slow down, that could not be good news.
Ok, I see your point there. I guess we will have to just wait and see if it actually is a problem on the field.
Yeah, I think you're right. But besides the Steelers, I am pretty excited about Texas football this season; I think the Cowboys and the Texans can both be good.
Really? I wouldn't have pegged them as frontrunners.
I just think they are the kind of teams that can be surprising; you can never tell what they are going to do.
I am with you there. They just seem to have either really good or bad seasons; nothing in the middle.
For sure. I just have a feeling that they could both be on the rise this season.
I know what you mean. I guess we just have to wait and see. It looks like it is going to be a good season no matter what!
Oh yeah! I can't wait!
