Who do you think is the G.O.A.T. (Greatest of all-time)?
Well, now the buzz is that Brady is. But I think there is some debate about this.
Who would make your short list
Definitely Brady, Montana, Jim Brown. Interestingly, It seemed like Jerry Rice was on that short list but his stock seemed to have gone down a bit.
Yeah, I remember when a lot of people thought Jerry Rice was the GOAT. Why do you think he has gone down a bit.
My theory is that with so many historically good QB's in the league right now, it's elevated the QB position even more.
And by that logic positions like RB and Wide Receiver have just gone down in importance.
Yeah, you can even see that in the NFL draft a bit. But getting back to the debate, it's really hard to be objective about Brady lately
I think the most recent Superbowl is in everyone's mind.
Yeah, it was such a remarkable comeback that for most people they think "there he is, the greatest of all-time".
Yeah, and I have a difficult time arguing with that assessment.
But I think the dust needs to settle a bit before anyone makes that proclamation.
Well, here's what I think would push him over the top: Super Bowl rings and the fact that he wasn't always surrounded by top-notch talent.
Well, it is impressive that his wide receiver core does change a lot and he is able to keep on winning. That is definitely in his favor.
What is the argument against?
I think Montana is in the discussion because his record in Super Bowls is perfect. Also, I know a lot of old-timers say Jim Brown was the most impressive player they'd every saw.
Well, I think the Jim Brown argument -- if you are going to go that route -- would not have to be based on stats but based on observing him play.
Yeah, and I think the number of people who first-hand witnessed him are obviously dwindling. Although his stats were very impressive.
Didn't have an amazing yards per carry average?
Without looking, I think so. Anyway, to me, saying that Brady is the GOAT is something you can't say without some objectivity that is granted by hindsight.
