What are your thoughts on J.J. Watt?
He's probably the most gifted defensive player of this generation.
I find him to be overrated if we're being honest.
Really? He is a three time NFL Defensive Player of the Year and a match up nightmare for offenses.
Yeah, but in the last two seasons that he won that award, the Texans either missed the playoffs or were blown out 30-0 in the Wild Card Round.
That's not his fault! He's only a defensive end and can't control the game like a quarterback.
I guess I am tough on him because people always say that he should not just win the Defensive Player of the Year award, but also the regular season MVP award too.
Well lets examine his stats from the 2014 season. He had 20.5 sacks, 4 forced fumbles, 5 defensive touchdowns, and 3 receiving touchdowns.
And his team went 7-9 and missed the playoffs.
Again, that's not his fault. Look at those ridiculous stats and tell me that he shouldn't have been MVP that season.
Well Aaron Rodgers threw 38 touchdowns that season with only 5 interceptions and led the Packers to first in the NFC North with a 12-4 record.
Rodgers was good, but was buttressed by a potent Green Bay offense. J.J. Watt was the only good defensive player on Houston that season.
What about Brian Cushing and A.J. Bouye?
Brian Cushing is decent, but he hasn't made a Pro Bowl since 2009. A.J. Bouye wasn't as good then as he is now.
Even putting aside the talk of the 2014 season, he's too injury prone to warrant the praise.
He's injury prone because he pushes himself further than most players.
Please explain why the Texans advanced further last season into the playoffs with J.J. Watt on the bench due to injury than the previous five seasons.
It was because the AFC South is one of the worst divisions in the NFL and their first Wild Card Game was against the Oakland Raiders, who lost Derek Carr to injury the previous December.
Fair, although Houston's defense appeared to function just fine without Watt.
Well that was largely due to the emergence of Jadeveon Clowney following two years of poor play.
