What are your thoughts on the AFC West for next season?
I'd have to say that they are currently the best division in the NFL.
Really? They only have two good quarterbacks, and Phillip Rivers is in the twilight of his career.
That might be true right now, but both Kansas City and Denver have competent quarterbacks that could return them to the playoffs.
I don't think that either Trevor Siemian or Paxton Lynch are ready to take Denver back to the Super Bowl. Regarding Kansas City, do you think rookie Patrick Mahomes will be great this season?
Mahomes has raw talent and can likely develop behind Alex Smith.
Yeah, but Alex Smith is not great. He totally botched that playoff game last year against the Steelers.
No one would call Smith elite, but he's a decent enough game manager that could shepherd them to the playoffs. Once they get into the playoffs, you never know what will happen.
I just think that Kansas City lacks what it takes to close the deal and win a Super Bowl at this point.
The thing about Kansas City though is that there success largely stems from their dominant defense. This is also the case with Denver.
No one is disputing their defenses. Denver won Super Bowl 50 mostly based on their defense.
I'm sure you're aware of the old saying that offense sells tickets and defense wins championships.
Yeah, but I'm not sure if that still applies given all the rules changes from the past decade that tend to favor the offense.
Great defenses sill matter. That's why I wouldn't count Denver or Kansas City out this season.
I am by no means counting them out and believe that either one or both of the teams have a decent shot to make the wild card round.
Also, you haven't yet addressed the Oakland Raiders, which is probably the strongest team within the AFC West going into next season.
I think that they're an excellent team. My fear though is that they were able to be good so far because they had a relatively young team still on rookie contracts, which will change in the next couple years.
They've already locked in Derek Carr to a long term deal and Khalil Mack is the most dominant defensive player not just in the AFC West, but in the NFL.
I disagree on both points. Von Miller is the most dominant defensive player in both the AFC West and the NFL.
Von Miller is good, but he's helped too much by other players in Denver's defense.
