Do you think it's right that tax payers help pay for a new football stadium?
I think that since it helps bring revenue to the city, then it's kind of a good deal.
The problem I have with it is that the money never really transfers over back to the tax payers. Only the owners get rich.
I suppose it still benefits the people of the city since they get a new stadium for their team.
But what about the tax payers who don't care about the NFL? What if they don't watch football or any kind of sport?
Yeah, I guess that would suck for them.
Exactly. I never did understand why taxpayers had to help pay the bill for a stadium to built.
Probably because it would be way to expensive for an owner to foot the bill themselves.
But if that's the case, then they shouldn't be owning a team in the first place.
I don't disagree with you there. But like I said, it does benefit the city one way or another.
The way I see it, if the owner of a team wants a new stadium, then they should pay for it themselves. These guys are so rich.
I think if that was the case, you would only see a few NFL football teams in a few cities. There aren't that many people willing to spend that much.
I guess that would be bad since I actually like watching football. But there has to be a better way than using taxpayer money.
I guess they can compromise by having some of the revenue that teams earn be guaranteed to going back to some of the city's needs like paying for infrastructure and programs.
Well, I would be down for that. I just think there has to be more transparency.
Well, considering you're a tax payer, you have the right to bring it up to your local officials.
Yeah, I don't think that's something I'm gonna have the determination to do. I just thought it was always a weird thing.
I  agree with you that if I were somebody that didn't watch sports, I would hate to know that my money was going to fund something I had no desire to watch.
Maybe they should just tax the people who are football fans.
I would just pretend I didn't like football and not get taxed while I watch secretly in the comfort of my home.
