So what is your prediction for the Super Bowl this year?
I wish an unexpected team would take it but it will probably be someone like the Patriots again.
Which team do you think would be the most surprising to go there?
There are a few, but probably the most surprising would be the Browns.
I can only imagine Vegas going nuts if the Browns were the AFC champions this season!
Yeah, I cannot imagine anyone betting on them. I imagine the AFC champs will be the Patriots.
I want to like them, just because of Brady's athleticism, but I just don't care for the coaching staff or the egos on the team.
Yeah, Belichick is the kind of coach that you either love or you hate. As for me, I have mad respect for what he has done.
He is definitely a good coach, but there are just too many questionable things about his coaching style. I'd rather root for players than coaches anyway.
So even if you go that way, you kind of have to admit that Brady is definitely the best quarterback in the game right now.
Yeah, there is no denying his talents, that's for sure. I always pick him for my fantasy team when I can.
I try to do the same, but too many people want him for their team. I like Carr and Roethlisberger too.
I don't know a lot about Carr, but I really like what I have read. He is the highest paid quarterback now!
I read about that, he got a 125 million dollar contract. I hear he is a really good guy, plus his stats are pretty amazing.
I still think I would choose Big Ben over Carr, just because he has experience.
That's true, plus the Steelers have been maturing as a team the last couple of years. They are bound to give the Patriots a run for their money.
It is funny how everything comes back to the Patriots. I guess that is what happens when you have the best team in the league.
Yeah, but they also have an old team too, at least it is getting that way.
True. I am going to cheer for them, but I hope that the Giants pull out the big win this year.
I am going with the Raiders myself. I think Carr is going to really prove himself this year.
