Did you watch the Cavaliers dismantle the Raptors last night?
I sure did. Toronto never even had a chance.
I was surprised it was a sweep, but I knew the Cavs would beat Toronto. The Cavs have the King.
Everybody knew the Cavs would beat Toronto. Do you think the Celtics can beat the Wizards?
No. Isiah Thomas doesn't have enough help. When he can't score, neither can the Celtics, and the Wizards are stopping him from scoring.
Do you expect the Wizards can challenge the Cavaliers?
No. At best, the Wizards might be able to win one game against the Cavaliers. I think the Cavaliers will have the two best players on the floor.
You really think Kyrie is better than John Wall?
Yes, I do. I expect the Cavs to beat the Wizards in four or five games. It would be a minor miracle if it went to six games.
So then, you think that no one can beat Lebron and the Cavs?
I didn't say that. No one in the East can beat them though.
Who are the teams out West that you think can beat them?
I expect that the Spurs can give them a run for their money. Although I don't think the Spurs will win the West due to Tony Parker's injury. They are always competitive, though.
Yes. And while there's no defensive player who can stop Lebron, Kawhi Leonard comes closest.
I agree with that, but he doesn't have enough help. I expect that either the Rockets or the Warriors will come out of the West. The Cavs would beat the Rockets though, I think.
So, you're saying that the Cavs are going to win this year unless the Warriors do?
Not quite. If by some miracle, San Antonio comes out of the West, they can beat the Cavs. I don't expect them to win the West, though. The Rockets can't beat the Cavs. The Warriors can.
Do you really think the Warriors-Cavs series will be different from last year if they meet again?
Well, first the Warriors were only one made three away from beating the Cavs. Second, the refs allowed Steph Curry to be fouled all through four games straight last year. I hope that doesn't happen again. I think the Warriors were better last year. I think they're better this year. I expect they can win.
Maybe you are right, but I wouldn't wan to bet against Lebron James.
