Did you see the Golden state Warriors versus the Utah Jazz Playoff Game 3?
Yeah.  It was the closest game yet. The Jazz seem to be losing by exactly 11 points each of the past 2 games.
It was amazingly close considering the Jazz  have been playing without Guard George Hill for two straight games.
I think the Warriors would have blown the Jazz out if Draymond Green didn't get in foul trouble and if steph' and Klay weren't throwing up bricks all night.
True.  Steph' Curry and Klay Tompson were really ice cold shooting.
Yeah,.  By contrast Jazz Shelvin Mack was THE playmaker for the Jazz- scoring, playing hard defense while most of the other players seemed to not be interested.
The Jazz played well the 1st half leading by 2 points.  But after that, it was all downhill.
The Jazz couldn't hit the broad side of a barn in the second half............
While the Warriors were getting the ball to Durant and playing the type of ball that got them into the playoffs again.
Rudy Gobert and Gordon Hayward were indecisive and gave open shots to guys like Joe Johnson who never shot well.
If the Jazz get Gobert and Hayward involved and let them shoot at will they have a chance of extending the series at least one more game.
The Warriors are a good defense team but the Jazz were ranked higher  defensively during the regular season.
That means nothing in the playoffs...............
It looks like Rudy Gobert will be playing in the next playoff game. Hopefully he'll bring his shooting ability with him.
He's only scored 21 points on his best game so far this series!
I know but he is a rebounding machine- 15 rebounds in his best game.
Rebounds are good but if a team can't shoot............
Utah shot 7/22 from outside in this game which is not very good for them.
If steph' Curry and Kevin Durant score 30 plus points each in the next game the party  is over for the Jazz.  I see a Warriors sweep coming!
Rudy Gobert and Gordon Hayward need to be on fire shooting for this next game.  I think that they will be and will carry the Jazz to victory.
