This kid has some NBA scouts drooling already. Huge pickup! Good job Tommy!
Also, Ronny was just in Paris, so he may have assisted on this one...Thanks Mr. Turiaf!
Listed as 6'4" with a 6'8" wingspan. Wow! He's very young.. if we land Brown this weekend, is Ayayi a Redshirt candidate?
In the past we've been told that coaches preferred not to redshirt players from overseas. Larsen redshirted primarily because he got hurt.
Could be a crowded backcourt next year!
So he's long, quick, and a good shooter. But he's also skinny, not developed enough as a ball handler to be a point guard, and could improve on defense. I'm guessing he won't be a true point for us. Very intriguing player though. I'm thrilled.
In the past we've been told that coaches preferred not to redshirt players from overseas. Larsen redshirted primarily because he got hurt.
Could be a crowded backcourt next year!
Why is that? Cause it's not worth the travel to sit for a year?
Looks like he's class of 17'. He just announce his commitment to Gonzaga (via twitter) and will play next year.
Great news, time for a trademark change (unless France exits from the European Union): Gonzaga EUniversity Basketball, or Gonzaga UNiversity Basketball.
Congrats!
My first thought?
Defensive length.
It is now a must.
I miss Mike Hart
Do you mean that the team desperately needs defensive length now or that it appears that the Zags are actively recruiting lengthy players for defense and Ayayi is another example of that?
Like Domas and Tille, if he played high school ball in the States he would possibly be a Mickey D's AA. But to be clear, he is a 2017? He's super young, may plan to redshirt him and let him learn and physically mature. Huge Get nonetheless!
Really, he can drive, shoot and handle the rock. This is another "under the radar" recruit by Tommy.
GU is set at the guard position. If we can polish it off with an immediate impact big (grad transfer) and maybe chase jeter to stash away for next year, we'll be set (jj Jones to get the last scholly?).
