Wow! The NBA playoffs are sure strange this year.
Yes, I know. There have been so many blowouts.
Right.  How about the way the Celtics were demolished by the Cavaliers the other night.  Man, that was ugly.
The Celtics are definitely done.  They might have had a slight chance against the Cavs but now that they've lost Thomas there's no way.
I agree. And the Warriers sure are hammering the Spurs.
I have a little sympathy for the Spurs.  Popovich is a great coach and I like his willingness to speak out about Trump.
Yea. And they've had so many injuries.  Losing Tony Parker was horrible and now they've lost another player.  Not even Pop can work miracles.
True.  And even the Warriors have had a major loss -  their coach!
Agreed.  Steve Kerr is one of the best in the business and its too bad his perrenial back problems are keeping him on the sidelines.  I hope the Warriors can overcome his absence.  I think they will.
Steve Kerr was having a great career in Tucson as a player at Arizona when I lived there.  Sometimes I used the research library at the U of A and I would occasionally see him there taking care of classwork.  He was a quality person.
Steve is a good man.  He would make a great President, unlike that clown we have now.
It's nice to have basketball and other sports as a distraction when the country is falling apart.
Hey, what about a pick-up game this afternoon. Are you up for that?  I need some exercise.
You know I am!  Can we wait until late afternoon when it's a bit cooler? You know how I sweat like crazy when I play basketball.
Yeah, I remember.  I'll bring a cooler full of ice and drinks.  You bring what's left of your corner jump shot - otherwise you'll get destroyed.
Okay, okay.  I get the message.  I am slowing down a bit with my advancing age.  I'm almost twenty-five!
Thinking about retiring, are you?
No way.  I wanna be playing basketball on the day I die.
Okay.  See you at five or so.  I'll take it easy on you to keep you alive for one more day, at least.
Hey, remember how we used to shoot hoops nonstop for hours in your driveway when we were in junior high?
