The Cavs put the nail in the coffin on the regular season.
Spurs and the Heat both did this before the Cavs.
Yeah but Cavs look like they will sweep their way to the finals. All of the regular season indicators had them struggling somewhat to make the finals.
Lebron is large part of that since the teams success mostly hinges on how he plays. But 99% of teams cannot do this or have this approach.
I guess so but they were terrible defensively and simply didn't care. They had everyone convinced they had legitimate issues.
I was never convinced of anything. I have been saying for quite sometime call me worried if they are doing this in the playoffs.
You can only say this when the outcome is positive.
I disagree. Nothing happened in the regular season to lead me to believe the Cavaliers couldn't handle the Raptors, Celtics, and Pacers.
The Cavs have played the Celtics, Raptors, Pacers. With LeBron in the lineup, we were 9-1 against these teams in the regular season.
The problem is beating those teams, proves very little for the exact reason that their ill-equipped to stop what the Cavaliers do.
Defense is not something you can turn a switch on. If Cleveland could defend better they would out of pride than to finish in the bottom quarter.
Actually it kind of is. This is why playoff defense is always improved.
The problem is, teams with more talent, tend to have worse execution during the season, so when the playoffs come, they seem to turn it up a notch when in reality, they are just focused.
The Cavs don't have to play great defense to blow out opponents....even average defense will suffice given how easy they put up points.
What Cleveland is doing now is impressive, but firstly it is not the norm.
It is though! They are a completely unique team because of Lebron.
You just proved my entire point. Without Lebron, the Cavs wouldn't be where they are today.
Lebron's effort and will is the "switch," and the rest of the team takes their cue from him. Basketball is a team sport.
What are you going to say if the Cavs end up choking?
Lmao get a grip on yourself. Hell will freeze over before that happens.
