hi there...have you been watching these NBA playoffs?
i've seen quite a few of the games,especially the celtics games since i'm such a big fan of theirs.
Oh.  I'm a Knicks fan so, as usual, they are not in the playoffs.
Wow! A knicks fan! i give you credit for admitting you root for those guys.
LOL, yes, they are a bunch of losers, i must admit, but i've been rooting for them for many years and i can't switch now.
before we talk about the playoffs, i've often wondered...how can a team with the money and resources that the knicks offer have so many bad seasons?
that's a very good question.  i put a lot of the blame on owner james dolan, but at this point, phil jackson has to also be held accountable.
i agree. jackson did a great job in chicago and los angeles, but he was coach then, not executive.  and he had superstars in both places.
that's right.  jackson has never been a team president until now.  it's obvious it was going to take quite a while to turn the knicks around, but the lack of progress is discouraging.
on to the playoffs, i am disappointed in how my celtics have played against cleveland, but just between you and me, i'm not surprised.  i felt going in that cleveland is the better team, by a wide margin.
and now the series shifts to cleveland so it's obvious that they pretty much have the series in the bag.
yes; i'm going to have to settle for knowing that the celtics had the best record in the conference in the regular season; but as far as the playoffs, they don't appear to be anywhere in the class of the cavs.
and how about those golden state warriors? after their heartbreaking loss in the finals last season, i'm sure they are highly motivated to get revenge on cleveland this time around.
no doubt.   i think the finals, when they start in about a week, will be, maybe, the most highly watched finals ever because of the rivalry that has developed between Golden State and the cavs.
am i right that this will be the third straight year they have been in the finals?
correct.  i wonder if that has ever happened before.
well, i happened to mention i've rooted for the knicks for many years.  i'll tell you right now that i'm 65 years old.  i'm not quite old enough to remember, but i do know that the knicks and the old minneapolis Lakers met for 3 straight years in the finals in the early/mid 1950s.
wow! i didn't know that.  did the knicks win any of the 3?
none of them  new york's 1970 and 1973 teams are the only titles they have won.
oh, the teams with reed, frazier, and debusschere.  well nice talking to you and for your own sake, consider rooting for another team.
