Do you think Lebron James will surpass Michael Jordan as the greatest basketball player?
I think Lebron will probably surpass many of Michael Jordan's records, but until he wins more championships, it is too early to say.
In what ways do you think Lebron is a better player than Michael Jordan?
Lebron is bigger and stronger than Jordan.  He also seems to be a better passer and rebounder.
How is Michael Jordan better than Lebron?
Michael Jordan was more dominant and clutch.  He was an unstoppable scorer and one of the best defensive players.
Do you think Michael Jordan won championships with less talent on his teams than Lebron?
Michael Jordan had Scottie Pippen, but Lebron had the Big Three- Lebron, D-Wade, and Chris Bosh in Miami.  Jordan had it much harder.
Where do you think Kobe is in regards to Michael Jordan and Lebron as the greatest of all time?
Kobe was the best of his time, but Michael Jordan is still greatest of all time.  Lebron is the best overall basketball player.
What makes Michael Jordan so much greater than the rest?
Jordan completely dominated the game offensively and defensively.  He made a good team and great team by getting double and triple teamed, making it easier for his teammates to score.
Do you think Lebron will continue to improve and evolve his game?
Lebron is getting better every season.  He is now getting better at this three point shooting making him a complete scorer.
Do you think Shaq could have been one of the greatest, if not the greatest player if he could hit free throws?
If Shaq could make free throws he would have been the most dominant player the game has ever seen.
Do you think Steph Curry and Kevin Durant will become the next top players in the league?
Curry is already breaking many three point records and has won a championship.  Durant is an unstoppable scorer but still hasn't won a championship yet.
Who do you think is the better duo, Durant and Curry or Lebron and Kyrie Irving?
I think Durant and Curry are a better duo that can dominate from anywhere on the court.
