Hey man, did you check out that Warriors vs Spurs game earlier today?
I sure did, it was game 1 of the Western Conference Finals and that crowd was going crazy!
The warriors were down big time in the first half. In fact, I think they actually fell behind by like twenty five points.
I know, I could not believe that the warriors were able to come back and win the game!
It did not really surprise me to be honest with you. I mean, they do have Steph Curry and Kevin Durant at their disposal so anything is possible for them.
That is true, but I was still very surprised. It sure did not help things when Kawhi Leonard went down with that ankle injury though.
Yea Kawhi is gonna have to get that ankle taken care of, the spurs have no chance without him!
I dont know dude, the spurs have some other really good players. I think they could still give Golden State a run for their money.
I feel ultimatley the warriors will just be to much and beat the spurs in five games. Mark my words, they will not need six games to end this series.
You may be right, but I still do not think it's wise to doubt the spurs. After all, they are a great organization that knows what it takes to be champions.
It is going to be the warriors and cavs in the finals; I can not wait for that one!
Yea me either, Lebron will be going for his second straight NBA championship. I think he will get it but it is going to be a battle.
There is no question about that, I think that series will go seven for sure.
It should be the best finals we have ever seen, who do you have winning it?
That is a very hard question, I could really see this one going back and forth! I just do not know who will take home the trophy,
Come on man, you have to pick a winner! Who ya got?
Alright I will pick a winner, it is just really hard! I think I am going to go with the Warriors, they just have to many weapons for anyone to deal with.
Yea having just Durant and Curry would make any team special. However, adding Draymond Green and Klay Thompson makes them almost unbeatable!
Either way it is going to be a fun series to watch. I am sure looking forward to it!
Me and you both buddy, we will just have to set back and see what happens.
