Who is your favorite NFL running back of all time?
There are so many including Walter Payton and Eric Dickerson but I'd have to go with Barry Sanders.
But he played on such a lousy team and never made it to the Super Bowl.
That's part of what makes him so great.  If Sanders had played behing a decent offensive line the sky would have been the limt.
What do you think made him so good.  He was all that big or fast compared to some others.
That's true but he had the ability to avoid tackles, which is why he never got seriously hurt.
I know what you mean.  I can recall Sanders making some moves that made very good linebackers look silly as they tried to tackle him.
Plus he had a low center of gravity with enormous thighs that made him hard to bring down if you could catch him.
It's such a shame that he left the Lions the way that he did.  Really left a bad taste with the fans.
Well I could kind of see his point.  He looked around and saw the Lions going noplace and still was healthy so figured he'd get out on top.
But he could have broken more records had he stayed just another year or two like Emmett Smith's record.
That was another thing about Barry that I admired.  He did not have a big ego and personal records didn't matter to him.
That's true.  I remember whenever he scored a touchdown - and he scored plenty - he would just casually flip the ball to the ref.
Yeah - no dancing or showing off from him at all.
He figured when he scored a touchdown he was just doing his job, which is refreshing compared to some of the show-offs today.
He was widely respected by the defensive players in the league who went up against him.
That's for sure.  Trying to tackle him was like trying to catch lightning in a bottle.
I remember during his first season during an exhibition game against the New York Giants, their great linebacker Harry Carson predicted that "No. 20 is going to be a great back."
And Carson was a veteran and all-star linebacker who knew what he was talking about when it came to running backs.
That's right. He knew a lot more than any sportswriter or coach or fan because he was out there on the field making the tackles.
