What team do you think will have the best defense in the NFL this year?
That's tough, but I think the Seattle Seahawks will be the best defense this year.
The Legion of Boom is usually a pretty safe bet, but they were not all that good last year.
It's true that they were not as good as in years previous, but Earl Thomas was injured and should be back stronger than ever this season.
I think they will also benefit from Richard Sherman not being traded in the long run.
Yes, Sherman helps all of the guys around him be better, even when his off the field comments are a little much.
When I watched the draft, I noticed Seattle went very defense heavy. Do you think they are preparing for a run?
I think there was so much value at many defensive positions, Seattle wanted to make sure to get their piece.
Seattle drafted a great player in Malik McDowell and I'm excited to see how he plays with the Seahawks.
Well, he is joining a team that tied for third in sacks last year, so it's a pretty good squad.
It's crazy to think how so many of those sacks came after Earl Thomas was injured and Seattle had to modify its game plan.
The injury definitely hurt Seattle's plan, but they still managed to finish top five in points and yards allowed.
It sounds like Seattle is only getting better, but I'm looking forward to seeing what Wade Phillips can do with the Rams.
The Rams have some very talented players, but they are way under-utilized.
Wade is one of the greatest defensive minds of all time, so I think he will be able to draft a plan that works for the players they already have in the building.
Aaron Donald has now had a couple of years, so he will be a good player to lead the defense.
The problem is consistency for that team, they had an awful time keeping people from scoring in the redzone.
Yeah, I'm worried that might happen again this year since Phillips is switching to 3-4.
Hopefully in a 3-4, the defense will be a bit more stout, even if there are growing pains.
There isn't much to lose with the Rams defense, as they can only improve upon last year.
