What is your favorite kind of music?
I am a total Beatle head!
Oh, yeah, who isn't? They are fabulous! Don't you love how they always sound like a girl group in their early music? Like they really just wanted to be a 60s girl group?
That is so funny! I don't know a lot about that music, I will have to look into it!
You will love it! You will be surprised how many songs you actually know when you hear them!
Because I would have heard them on the radio?
Or maybe you had older siblings who listen to it. But what I was thinking was how many cover tunes probably heard of the songs and did not know that they were cover tunes of 60s girl groups.
I think it is really tripping how everything built on everything else.
I totally agree! Kind of like how Dylan loved Little Richard and wanted to be Little Richard...
Yeah, so did John Waters! That's where he got his mustache!
So funny! Well, that's where Dylan got his hair was from Little Richard! And then Hendrix loved Dylan...
I know! Totally! Then Dylan got his hair from Jimi Hendrix!
The stuff totally kills me! And then Hendrix takes a song like Dylan's All Along the Watchtower, and totally makes it his own. Absolutely tripping!
And did you notice how if you close your eyes and listen to T-Rex, the lyrics could completely be Donovan lyrics?
Oh, yeah, that's because Marc Bolan was a total Donovan Maniac. Donovan could not look up from a show without seeing Bolan in the audience.
And it is so cool how people like the Byrds say they were just trying to sound like the Beatles. They sounded nothing like the Beatles, but in trying to do so, they totally got their own completely unique sound!
It's awesome! I never knew why Donovan always denied having heard of Bob Dylan when he was so obviously copying him to begin with. It's not like he alternately did not make his own completely unique and incredible sound!
I know, I have always found that kind of sad. But there you have it! I do love Donovan!
Same here! I love how he sings about the starfish and how when they say they are getting older, they say many ladies have I lost and many have I gained exclamation point
It is fabulous! And what about the starfish on the toast? Do you think the electrical banana from Mellow Yellow is a vibrator?
