Have you heard Paramore's new album, After Laughter?
I haven't had a chance to listen to the whole album but I've heard a few songs.
A lot of people say it's completely different from their other stuff. Do you like what you've heard so far?
I really liked the first song they posted on their Facebook, Hard Times. I'm still not too sure whether I love Told You So or not.
I think Hard Times was definitely different than what I was expecting, especially with Zac Farro rejoining the band. I do like it better than Told You So but I love the reasoning Hayley Williams gave for the song.
I haven't seen any interviews about Told You So, what did she say about it?
The gist of a few articles was that, because they've been so unsure of whether there would even be a new album after Jeremy Davis left, she always has this feeling that everyone around her can see the warning signs even though she can't. So everyone's waiting around to say they told her so when things go badly.
I can see that. I got that it was about people assuming they were right and saying they told you so but I didn't really think about it in relation to the band.
I do think the sound is different compared to their other albums but I think that's one of the things I love about the band, really.
Yeah, they started out pretty young, right? I hadn't heard about them until The Singles Club and then the album, Paramore, came out, so I didn't know they'd gone through a couple rotations of band members.
I really didn't see Davis leaving the band again. It seems like there's an explosion in the band, they regroup, remember that they love what they're doing and they want to keep at it, and then they put out a new album. You have to figure that the sound and vibe of each is going to be a bit different just based on that alone.
I think all bands that stick together for the long haul end up having some progression in their music and vibe. Unless they decide to stick with what works in the band and then do their own solo thing to explore anything else.
I think so too. I know that the Farro brothers were supposed to be leaving in order to pursue another band but I'm not sure whether Taylor York or Jeremy Davis have done their own things. Hayley has down a few solo things but it's usually a feature for another artist.
I remember her being featured in that B.o.B song, Airplanes. A couple of others, too.
It'll be interesting to see what happens after they've toured for this album. They've been a constant for me since 2006 so of course I'd hate to not see another album from them but I also hate that there seems to be so many problems.
I feel like there's always a fair amount of songs with each album that concern whatever the drama was. At least with the self titled album and this one, anyways.
Yep, there was some pretty pointed shade on the self titled album. I guess that's why everyone was so shocked that Zac came back; it's hard to believe that Jeremy leaving was even more contentious and tense than the brothers leaving.
Still, they've made really catchy songs that stick with you. I mean, they've got talent and Hayley is a great singer so you have to think that she'll probably stick with it no matter what.
They re very catchy. I'm not sure if I've fallen for any of these songs as hard as I fell for Native Tongue or Still Into You off of 2013's album, Hard Times has been the catchiest for me so far.
I think I'll probably go back and listen to their old stuff just so I know what people are talking about concerning the change. I vaguely remember hearing one or two of those songs, maybe seeing the music videos.
