What team do you think will win the Super Bowl this upcoming season?
I think the Raiders have a good shot. The Cowboys are up and coming as well.
What do you think about the Raiders bringing Marshawn Lynch out of retirement to play for them?
I am actually really excited to see how he does after some time off. I hope he is as good as ever.
The Raiders could really use a power back to compliment their high flying offense.
I agree. Did you see the monster deal the Raiders just signed with Derek Carr?
Yeah, wasn't it like 5 years for 125 million dollars?
Yeah, because of that deal he is currently the highest paid player in the NFL.
Did the Raiders just sign another player to a huge contract too?
Are you talking about Gabe Jackson? They signed him for a 5 year 56 million dollar contract.
Yeah, that's really good for a guard though. I think he's like the third highest paid guard in he league now behind Raider's Osemele and the Brown's guard.
Yeah, true. Do you think the raiders are going to run out of cap space and not be able to seal the deal on bigger names such as Khalil Mack?
I think that claim is really off mark. Derek Carr worked with the office to make sure there would be enough money left on the table for the Raiders to do deals with all the players they had planned to negotiate with this season.
I suppose they still have 37 million dollars in cap space and they could restructure a few contracts if they wanted to make more cap space for Mack.
I think if they wanted to sign a new contract with Khalil Mack this season they would have by now. I think they are planning on waiting until next year.
Yeah, I mean he is signed through 2018 and he isn't entering a contract year like the other two major players they just negotiated with.
Do you really think its fair to Mack though? Considering he is is probably the best player on their team.
Yeah, Carr gets all the attention because he's the quarterback, but I agree Mack is the best player on that team and deserves to be paid like it.
It kind of seems like the Raiders are making bad excuses not to pay him what he deserves.
Plus he has to risk injury one more year waiting to get paid to his caliber.
