Do you watch The Grammys anymore?  I watched it the other night.
I watched it but I swear there are so many artists today that I have never even heard of.
I did like that Adele won for Album of the Year for 25.
She has a beautiful classic voice.  She would sound gorgeous in any era.
Personally, I'm not a big Beyonce fan even though everyone loves her Lemonade album.
My son actually had to do a homework assignment about Lemonade!  Wish we had homework about the Beatles when I was kid.
I actually like some of the new music.  I totally miss hearing The Fugees.  I thought their remake of Killing Me Softly was better than the original.
Lauren Hill is so underrated.  Did you ever hear her remake of "Can't Take My Eyes Off of You" the old Frankie Valli hit?  It's awesome.
Yes. I love it when I'm surprised by a remake of a popular song.  You always think it's going to be worse, so you are blown away when it's good.
Just goes to show you that you can't prejudge till you hear it. You have to keep an open mind.
I have to confess, I don't always do that.  Can I give you another example?
Don't tell me you love rap music because I won't believe you!
Well, when I first heard a version of Rehab by Amy Winehouse, I liked the song, but then when I heard the mix with Jay Z, I thought it was incredible.
That shocks me.  I  figured you for strictly old school.  I liked that version but some of the lyrics turned me off, think there was some profanity.
I think that so much rap music would have a broader audience but for the language.  That doesn't mean it has to be "Gettin Jiggy With It" by Will Smith
Yeah, some of Tupac Shakur's music was powerful without the bad language.
Well, it certainly seems that for two older ladies, we have fairly broad taste in music!
Well, when my kids come over at least I know who Lady Gaga is, I guess that's progress.
I feel like the artists that are the best like Adele or Lady Gaga know they owe a debt to the older artists, like Tony Bennett.
Well, that Cheek to Cheek album they did together was pretty good.  Tony Bennett is 90 years old so guess we can all learn something new about music!
