Man, you've got me increasingly addicted to early West-Coast punk
Ha. I am victorious. I just got a bunch of X's backlist--it's really hard to search for that band with a one-letter name!
Yeah, but maybe that's just to be punk rock and difficult?
Maybe, or maybe it was just the early eighties and nobody had ever thought of being Google-search friendly. Did you check out TSOL?
I loved the TSOL you lent me. I don't like it as much as the Germs, but it's great for blasting at red lights.
Doing our part to counteract the hiphop and garbage radio pop, one power chord at a time.
I checked out a band that's supposedly kind of in the same food group.  Have you ever heard of the Flesh Eaters?
The name is familiar but I'm having a hard time thinking of a particular song. Is it kind of...sounds like the Ramones more than the Sex Pistols?
Yeah, that's it. I think I like the heavier less friendly sound.
You need to check out the Diesel Queens. You'll laugh yourself silly.  It's more modern but unlike most of the pop that gets called punk in the last couple of decades it's actually punk.
I'll definitely check that out next, I'm still filling in all the punk I was too busy not being born to listen to!
I was there and I'm still catching up, but I'm getting into more modern acts that I think still have that punk soul. Right now I'm crazy about a band called Nazis From Mars.
I've heard of that! I think they call that eight-bit punk, it's punk but it sounds like they played half of it using Atari sound effects?
That's them! Female vocalist, I think she might be French from her accent. They did a cover of I Wanna Be Sedated by the Ramones that's so much better than the original.
Honestly I know we're required by some kind of subcultural law to like the Ramones, but I never really did except for THAT song.
It's too radio friendly. And since a friend of mine said, "It sounds like the Beach Boys," I'm unable to hear anything else.
Oh my God, you're right, it DOES sound like the Beach Boys.
See? And that's not a compliment for a punk band. Or honestly for any band except the Beach Boys.
Well, the Beach Boys sounds like....old fifties rock, as in when it was still really called rock and roll.
It's just too vanilla for me.  Too safe, it's like I can hear the musicians fantasizing about all the radio play they're going to get, which is the opposite of punk.
