I love listening to the radio and zoning out with the music on the way home from work!
I know! Music brings up so many memories, doesn't it?
Yes! Especially when I hear the positive songs from my teen years. Oh to hear the hair bands screaming about lost love.
Definitely makes you think back to that first crush, first school dance, summer vacation, and lots more!
Right. And then when the rap songs come on, those always remind me of fun times too! Back when rap was real.
I know! 2Pac, Biggie, Eazy-E, Dr. Dre, and Snoop rapped about truth! Now we have posers that just say what sounds tough. Ridiculous!
And then sometimes I flip the station to the older songs that my parents always listened to on the radio when I was young.
Oh yes! Air Supply, Brian Adams, and the Beach Boys for me!
Definitely all of those! Plus The Eagles, Elvis, Reba, The Oakridge Boys, and Alabama.
Doesn't it make you feel almost like you're a little kid again?
Yes. Sometimes I can remember the smells or where we were going when a certain song was played. Music transports me back in so many ways!
Do you listen to more of the older stuff? Or do you listen to today's popular music too?
Oh I listen to it all! I have a 21-year-old and an 8-year-old, so they keep me hip and young!
It's just not the same as what we liked back in the day.
No, not at all. I used to have my bedroom walls covered with all of the hottest hair bands. Groups like L.A. Guns, Motley Crue, Guns n Roses, and Skidrow.
Oh Sebastian Bach from Skidrow! Man he could sing and he was so good looking with that long, shiny hair!
I think I had a crush on every one of those guys in them bands back then! To be young again!
I am going to have to start listening to some of my older favorites. I found myself listening to jazz today and almost couldn't believe it myself!
Yes, our music taste evolves as we age, but I relish every genre these days. Classical and jazz can be soothing for the soul.
I agree and my day was particularly stressful, so that's probably why I turned it on and zoned out to it.
