I know you're a Beatles fan so maybe you can help me with a question i have.
DId you realize you just made a pun?  you said "help", their second movie.
Hah! No I didn't even know i made the pun, but it's not a bad one.  anyway, i have a question about a Beatles CD that i received yesterday.
there you go again with the pun, saying "yesterday," perhaps Paul McCartney's most famous song.  but seriously, what's your question?
I'm completely confused.  I received the CD, "a hard day's night; soundtrack", which i had ordered from amazon.
great movie; i've seen it maybe eight times.  so how's the CD?
Well, i received the United Artists album, and now i understand there is a Capital records version.  Also, i am now told there is an England version, and a United States version.  what the heck! please explain this to me.
I don't blame you for being confused, because there have been a few re-releases of the original 1964 album, which was the United Artists album.  I'm referring to the album released here in the States.
But what about the "a hard day's night" album that was released in England?
You have to understand that for the first few years of their existence, the Beatles released two different albums for all their recordings: one in england, and one here in the states.  these albums, which sometimes had the same name and sometimes didn't, had some songs in common and some different.
How confusing! why did they do that.
the only thing i can think of is that they were thinking about the financial aspect.  truthfully the Beatles, and their manager Brian Epstein, were very interested in making as much money as they could.  and that didn't change when Epstein died of an overdose.
So i guess that sort of explains what happened with the album i received.
It sounds like you got the United Artists soundtrack, which as i understand it was only available in the States, although frankly i wouldn't bet on it.  since that was a movie soundtrack, i'm not sure that everything i've explained holds for this specific album.
Holy cow; this is confusing...i hope i never get quizzed on this; i'd surely fail.  i have another question about the album.  there are 12 songs on it, but after the 12th song, they are all repeated.
what do you mean? you mean they have one version of the songs, and then another?
No..the exact same versions are repeated.  and to add to the confusion, the album cover has no indication of this...it just lists the 12 songs.
Now i'm confused too.  it almost sounds like you received the wrong CD; that it didn't belong in the album jacket it came in.  I would contact the seller about this.
that's exactly what i'm going to do because this whole thing is messed up.  but thanks for explaining to me how there were different versions of Beatles albums.
no problem.  and i didn't even mention that Capital has "reissued" many of their albums that had been previously available only on vinyl.  we'll deal with that another time.  take care!
