Did you finish watching that series on Netflix yesterday?
No, there was a last minute live-stream of one of my favorite singers show in London yesterday that I got the chance to watch.
Who was that exactly?
Amanda Palmer - you might not know her she is pretty much very alternative and independent.
No I haven't heard of her, what kind of music is it? Alternative is such a generic category.
Well, when she was younger she was in the band Dresden Dolls which was classed a Punk Cabaret. She has been called punk, gothic, avant garde, and the list goes on. She is really fluid in what she creates.
Oh ok. I have heard the Dresden Dolls before. I didn't know she did anything after that or much about her.
Well, she is really extremely indie. She had signed with an indie record label and they wanted her to do things like lose weight and hide her mid-drift in a video. She refused - which is one thing I love about her, she is a real as her music.
So they dumped her I take it?
Not sure - but she did end up doing a Kickstarter campaign for her next album and got a crazy amount of support. It is my second favorite record of hers - Theatre is Evil.
So she just does Kickstarter to pay for everything now when it comes to production?
No, she actually set up a Patron that she uses to fund multiple projects. That is how she managed to pay for that live stream of the concert in London that I watched.
So does she just write songs and sing with a backup band?
Sometimes. She has worked with a lot of different people. She plays the Piano/keyboard a lot along with the Ukulele and some other instruments.
What album would you suggest I buy if I wanted to check her out more?
Well, she sells all of her stuff in terms of downloads under the pay what you can on her site. But I would start with some of the videos, she has amazing music videos that you can find on Youtube.
What are your favorite videos then?
Basically the entire Who Killed Amanda Palmer album. It is really moving and powerful.
I will make sure to check it out then.
Oh she also wrote a book and did a really famous TED talk that you can find online to get more of an idea of who she is as a person.
