I'm looking for some new music, I feel like I've been listening to the same stuff lately.
I can help with that, I've discovered a few great artists recently and added them to my playlists.
Great! Do you know of any local artists, I want to be more involved in the local music scene.
I saw a lot of great artists in the city recently. My favorite so far is Ayron Jones, have you heard of him?
I haven't! What kind of music does he play?
He's a guitar player, who also performs with a bass player and a drummer. You should check out their website, they just released a new album a couple weeks ago!
I will definitely check that out. What other local bands do you suggest?
So TacoCat is great for alternative music, they play a lot locally. They also usually have the band Boyfriends open for them, because the members of boyfriends are the actual boyfriends of the girls in TacoCat.
That's so funny! I'll be sure to look them up.
Yeah, they play a lot of cheap local shows. Another great local band is Eldridge Gravy and the Court Supreme.
what a funny name, are they like a big country group?
They play good folk music, but they are so fun to watch on stage, and they have like 15 band members.
Awesome! These all sound like great suggestions for local music. What else you got?
So there's a band that was called The West, and now they are called Killer Workout, but they play new disco and dance music, their shows are amazing, they are so good live.
Wow, all these local artists I've never heard of, I'll have to get out to some more live music shows.
There's every kind of music every weekend. If you are looking for something softer like Jazz music, there's The Apollo Trio, and they are amazing.
Yeah, that sounds great! Do you know of any good local country bands, my boyfriend loves going to country shows.
Absolutely, I saw Steel Grit and they totally rocked it. It's a weird match up when you see the band onstage, but the music is absolutely on point.
Awesome, thanks so much for your recommendations. I have quite a few bands to look up now.
Of course, and as always, if you are not yet a Pearl Jam fan, they are my favorite Seattle band, and I still listen to them all the time!
