Who is the 2017 darkhorse team from the AFC?
I think Jacksonville will surprise a lot of teams.
Why do you say so?
I think that they already had a great offense, and now that they have signed AJ Bouye and Calais Campbell, it only makes sense for them to get even better. I anticipate they will have a top 3 defense.
I do see them being a great team if and only if that offense, primarily Bortles, can pull back his 2015 form.
Definitely. He wasn't even an efficient QB though that season, that was more him just being a Favre-like gunslinger. I do think that the offense is held to a mid-level ceiling.
What would hold them back, or rather, what do they have to do to overcome repeating basically the Jacksonville side of the last decade?
It all goes back to Bortles and who is going to play RG and TE on the offense as well.
My big concern if I were a Jags fan is that the AFC South though is getting much, much better and I just have my doubts that Jacksonville can overcome Tennessee or Indy, and even Houston.
That is very true.
I think that their WR will be a fun watch as long as Allen Robinson can return to his 2015 form. Who do you think emerges as the slot receiver between Dede Westbrook and Marqise Lee?
That is a great question. They both remind me of each other. I know that the two Allens in Allen Robinson and Allen Hurns will be the outside receivers, but between Marqise and Dede, I am not certain. I think that Dede has the potential to blow the top off of defenses where Marqise Lee is more of the medium, diagonal route running man who may not get the yards after the catch. I think that Jacksonville is in a weird place because they drafted a RB yet they have many WR to share the ball with, I don't know, I think a four receiver set puts them in an awkward position.
Absolutely. I wish the best for Fournette, but I don't think that he will earn his wage or that he will even meet the expectations that people have of him.
Speaking of awkward and weird, Bortles is best in shotgun where Fournette is best running out of the backfield with a fullback or in an ace formation with the QB under center. What does the offensive coordinator do to get the most out of both players?
I think it has to be situational, and this isn't even referring to Bortles or Fournette, but you go gun when you're down or time is low before half and you otherwise go under center and pound the rock as much as you can with Fournette. I would like to see Fournette get 25 or more carries per game.
I would be really impressed if her were to get that many touches, and I mean from carries and receptions.
That is a tough workload for a rookie RB, especially in today's NFL.
If he is getting that many carries, then that can only mean good things for Jacksonville.
Duuuuuvaaaaaall! As my friends in northern Florida would say.
Duuuuuuuuuuvvvvaaaaaalll! hahaha It has to be long drawn out and proud. They will be my "second team" this season as I do think and hope they hold their own in an emerging division.
