Do you remember that band The Cure?
Yeah I used to like their music very much but it's been a long time since I've listened to them. Are they still around?
They're still touring but they haven't made any new music recently. They just play their old stuff.
Well they were putting out music for 30 years. Boys Don't Cry came out around 1979 didn't it?
Actually their first album was called Three Imaginary Boys and yeah, it came out in 1979.
I really liked the album Disintegration. Every song on that album was excellent.
Some might say it sounds a little dated today but I don't think so. The heavy use of keyboards was very 80's but it's still a wonderful atmospheric album.
I especially like Simon Gallup's bass parts on that album. In particular the songs Fascination Street and Lullaby.
They really had a unique and distinctive sound about them. Nobody sounded like them and to this day, they're still pretty unique.
Robert Smith was a really underrated songwriter I think. People focused a lot on his looks and hairstyles but he wrote so many amazing songs.
What genre would you classify The Cure into. New Wave, rock, goth, pop?
I know they often get labeled as a goth band and there are definite goth elements to their music but I think label is a little insulting to be honest.
I think that label mainly comes from their image more so than their music. Although I you can't deny that a lot of their sounds are depressing or about darker subject matter.
Some more than others. The albums Disintegration and Faith were pretty moody and dark but then you have more upbeat albums like Wish and Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me.
Have you ever been to one of their concerts?
Yes and it was amazing. They played for over three hours and sounded so good!
They're a lot older these days but still sound great live from what I've seen.
They sound great but Robert Smith is getting a little too old to have that same hairstyle.
I hope I get a chance to see them live one more time before they retire.
Me too. I'm going to have to find out when they will be coming to my city or a city near me.
