Let's talk about the mostly forgotten music genre known as "bubble gum" music.
Ah yes! good old bubble gum music.  I doubt most people under the age of 50, or maybe even younger, have ever heard of it.  But I'm 65 and i definitely remember it.
Me too.  i'm 61 and i remember when there were quite a few hits that could be classifed as "bubble gum."  i think mostly this took place in the late 1960s.
I think you're right.  bubble gum didn't have a long life span, but for about 3 years there were quite a few hits that could be called "bubble gum" music.
One bubble gum group i remember was the "ohio express."  they had a few bubble gum hits such as "Yummy Yummy Yummy."
Wow; i hadn't thought of that song for decades.  that was a huge hit.  incredibly silly lyrics, but it certainly was a successful song.
the "Ohio Express" actually had a record or two before they turned into a "bubble gum" act.  but they didn't become successful until they found what worked for them..."bubble gum" music.
Ohio Express recorded on the "Buddah" record label, which was also the label for another bubble gum act, the "1910 Fruitgum Company."
What an appropriate name for a bubble gum group: the "1910 Fruitgum Company."  As i recall, their big hit was "1, 2, 3 red light."
Yes, the 1910 fruitgum company had a lighter, more innocent tone than the Ohio Express."  but both did well on the charts.
There was a group which actually comprised various members of various bubble gum groups called the "kasenetz katz singing orchestral circus."  did you ever hear of them?
are you kidding? the "kasenetz katz singing circus?" i definitely never heard of them.  were they successful?
actually it was the "kasenetz katz singing ORCHESTRAL circus," and i doubt they had any hits.  but i do remember one song they recorded which i liked alot called "quick joey small."
what was that song about do you remember?
it was actually about a prisoner who escaped;  with lyrics like "quick joey small jumped over the wall with a ball and chain behind him."
LOL! that's great.  here's a true story: when i was in the sixth grade, my english teacher actually criticized the song "Indain Giver," which was a huge hit on the charts.
I remember that song.  i think it was recorded by 1910 fruitgum company, but maybe it was by the Ohio Express.  what did the teacher say about it?
she took the term "indian giver" literally.  the lyrics went, "indian giver, you took your love away from me."  my teacher thought it was offensive.
you know, i can see your teacher's point of view.  if you take it literally, the term "indian giver" is offensive.  but i must say it was a good song.  i guess i never considered the lyrics as offensive; at least until now.
well it was good talking about bubble gum music.  right now i'm humming "mercy mercy."  it wasn't a big hit, but it was in my "bubble gum  music" collection!
