Do you like digital downloads when it comes to music?
I can appreciate the music being made conveniently-available at less cost, but I much prefer having a physical record to hold onto, regardless of format.
I agree! There are plenty of good reissue labels available that do just that. Bear Family Records out of Germany reissues some great blues, rock, country, and European music in deluxe CD box sets for avid collectors.
I like them, too. It's nice having complete discographies of people like George Jones and Merle Haggard, although they are pricey at around eighty to a hundred-plus dollars apiece per set.
Yeah, but some labels are cheaper and just as good. Document Records is a nice Euro label covering American roots music, heavy on the Black genres of blues and rock, and also good for old-time rural music from White America.
I have almost everything from the hillbilly series myself. I also like Archeophone Records, based out of Illinois in the States.
What do they have to offer? Do they do vinyl or CDs?
They primarily focus on compact disc of old phonograph artists from the birth of the recording industry, the late 1800s to about 1925, just before electricity was used in the recording process.
That's pretty obscure, buddy. How does somebody get into listening to that kind of thing?
I like historical records and life experiences. I like seeing how far we've come as a society and a human race, and where we are now, and how the similarities are still present in the music, how lessons can be learned, that kind of thing.
That's pretty observant. YouTube and the Internet Archive have a lot of old wax cylinders, discs, and 78 shellac discs digitized for online listening and download.
They really do, it's great to see so much music in the public-domain is able to be preserved and retained for posterity. I like physical media because some day, the Internet might not be widely or conveniently available.
Agreed, and it's wise to have a backup plan. The nice thing about CDs is that so long as the player operates and we have batteries, we don't need computers or even electricity to power them!
Right-o! Old phonograph media is even better, because so long as it is preserved well, it will continue to play well so long as we have a sort of needle, sound diaphragm and audio horn.
Music for the global Apocalypse. Music to stand the test of time.
Exactly right. I try to hoard all the music that I can, and the same with books and media.
Me too. Digital copies are great for convenience and keeping the physical goods safely tucked away.
Mhm, and some artists are saving costs and only releasing themselves via digital downloads. Kind of sucks having to burn your own CDs, because you never know if they'll hold up or degrade with time, versus factory-pressed discs.
I agree wholeheartedly, so I rip everything to my portable hard drive and play it from there, to keep the media from oxygenating and getting spoiled - I can ensure 1-to-1 lossless bitrate in the audio, too, which some stores don't provide, as not all of them sell FLAC for Windows, or AAC for the Mac OS.
Me, too! It's up to we in the present to maintain the past generational experiences for the betterment of the future in terms of learning where we've been and where we're going as a human society.
