I believe that the hippie movement never went away, it was tranfused by punk into goth.
That's a weird theory, what makes you say such a thing?
Well, the hippie movement was a political and social reaction to a lot that was going on at the time. Particularly Vietnam, Woman's Rights, and other political movements of significance.
Yes, but goth music is just about sad people moping around.
Not really, but that is part of it. However, it also makes sense when you realize that the hippie movement failed to fulfill many of its dreams.
Not really, a lot of what they wanted actually came true.
You might think that, but consider that the movement was all but dead when Vietnam finally stopped, consider that woman's rights is still an issue (equal pay, for instance). Consider that racial rights is very much still up for discussion.
So, how did this change happen?
Well part of it is understanding some history of music. The Hippie movement was based from folk and combined with rock. In Europe, there was a similar movement, but instead of combining folk, it was classical.
That is called progressive rock, right?
Yes, but it shared some themes of the hippie movement in the US. Anyway, punk was born as a specific response to progressive music, which didn't appeal to youth much as the 70s got closer to the 80s.
What changed? I thought progressive rock was a bunch of stoner druggies.
Well, the kids started to realize that the previous generation failed. They got angry and some of the drugs didn't appeal anymore.
Like pot isn't as nice when you are angry.
Correct. So in this angry response, the kids were really trying to get the same things as the hippies - think of Anarchy in UK. Think of what they are asking for.
It is about getting rid of the establishment and creating a new society.
Exactly, and those concepts were explored a lot by the hippie movement, like Jefferson Airplane.
But what about the goths?
Yes, so the goths really completed the cycle, they looked at these failed political pushes and finally internalized the needs for change by introducing themselves into the mix. Not egotistically, but realisitically. The post-punk / goth movement is incredibly political and social, and yet it strikes the heart of the issue - the self.
That's a good explanation - and there are other connections too. Like The Mission was produced by John Paul Jones! Thank you for the summary!
