I can't wait for the NFL season to start!
How many more days until kickoff?
We still have to wait 59 more days.
That is not that long! How do you think Deshaun Watson will do this year?
I think he is overrated and will not make a difference on the Texans.
I don't know, the Texans have a great defense and their division includes the Jaguars and Titans. I think that alone has gotten them into the playoffs the last couple of years. Watson just needs to be average.
I agree. That Texans defense is Nasty.
Do you think we will see some improvement from the Colts and Andrew Luck this year?
Luck is not a bad quarterback but I think they have team management issues so I expect that they will underperform again this year.
I am not a fan of Luck, I think he is has decent skills but he gets way too many passes from fans about some of his play.
I feel the same way about Russell Wilson! He is decent and has a terrible offensive line in front of him, but he also holds on to the ball for way too long sometimes.
I agree. I also find the entire Seahawks team to be very unlikeable.
I do too. I am so glad they didn't make it to the Superbowl last year. I think they will miss out again this year.
I think so too. I also don't expect to see the Panthers back in the playoffs. Cam Newton is either really great or really awful. There is no in between with him.
Yeah, and I saw that Kelvin Benjamin is still struggling with weight issues. Maybe drafting McCaffrey will be the difference they need.
Maybe, but they are still in a tough division. The Saints have a horrible defense, but you can't ever count out Drew Brees, the Falcons will be tough to beat if they do not experience the "Super Bowl Hangover" and Winston and Mike Evans on the Bucs will be no easy task to defend either.
That is a weird division. I think Brees will retire soon.
I hope he does. He is great to watch, unless he is playing against your team!
You are right. Once he retires I am not sure what the Saints will do.
I know, and they just keep pushing their salary cap issues down the road. That will eventually come up and bite them.
