What caused changes in Todd Gurley's play between 2015 and 2016?
Todd Gurleys 2016 stats pale in comparison to what he did in his rookie season.
I've heard rams fans claim this was either because opposing defenses stacked the box in the face of an anemic rams passing attack, or because gurley's actual play got worse.
RT Rob Havenstein regressed due to an ankle injury. Center Tim Barnes went from inconsistent to just bad. We lost Garrett Reynolds who was actually a really good run blocker. Jamon Brown/Cody Wichmann/Andrew Donnal all were poor guards. It got worse for sure.
And also, it did suck in 2015 too. Aside from Gurley's hot start in his first 4 or so, he really didn't do a whole ton the rest of that year either. Mostly just the occasional big play that we didn't get this year.
How do you think he'll do this year? Have they made any changes to the Oline?
Kromer is a fantastic OL coach. Aside from beating 14 year olds up, they were lucky to get him. He turned our OL into what it is right now.
he wasn't much of a coordinator but gave the bears the best O line they've had in my lifetime.
That's gotta be the oddest collection of aging vets and young talent. Did they draft any depth to develop at C or OT?
They felt confident in the OL we drafted in 2015, so I'm guessing Kromer thinks he can mold them. We did sign a guy, Jake Eldrenkamp that we apparently loved and were willing to draft. He's our backup center competing with Austin Blythe who we signed off waivers from the Colts.
Imagine if you took Dan Marino and put him (with all the modern conditioning and sports science) in charge of a modern spread offense. How much better he be?
Put Cam Newton on a team from 40-50 years ago and you have unparalleled domination.
Put Cam on the Air Coryell Chargers with people like Alworth Winslow and Joiner. You have a qb who can move like crazy and has an amazing pass offense.
Alternatively, put him on a Wing or T or whatever offense of the 30s-50s. Although the culture wouldnt be positive, his athleticism would wreck defenses
You think he gets vilified now, imagine 50 years ago as the first black quarterback
He wouldn't be vilified... He would be a sports legend.
The first black qb threw for 5122 yards in college earning the right to be drafted in the 14th round to play cornerback.
he had to negotiate his own contract with the Broncos to say he must have a three day trial at qb so he could use the public and press attention at the camp to his advantage. He managed to get the job because there was no one else.
I'd say the same of Vick as well, if not more so. Newton is harder to bring down, but Vick had an elusiveness that made him a 1000+ yard rusher even in the current era.
Jesus, Vick in that era would be like Bo Jackson in Tecmo Bowl!
