You're interested in Contemporary Christian music aren't you?
Oh definitely! Most people just don't know how good a lot of that music is.  I believe in terms of record sales, it's the fastest growing genre.
I'm not surprised because as you say, so much of it is really good.  When i first got into it, i was real surprised how outstanding it was.
Me too.  I had the outdated notion that Christian music was stuff by, say, Andy Griffith or Tenessee Ernie Ford.  Boy was i surprised!
I know what you mean.  People like Tennessee Ernie did great stuff singing old time Christian hymns and traditional songs, but it's all different now.
I remember when i first heard about the "K Love" radio network.  I was absolutely amazed when my wife recommended it to me.  i had no idea Contemporary Christian music was so...well...Contemporary!
I used to listen to "K Love," but i switched to their "sister station" "Air One," because it's a little more progressive; just a little more to my liking.  But K Love is also outstanding.
Who are some of your favorite artists in that format? For example, do you like the Newsboys?
You know it's funny you ask me about that band.  I think some of their early stuff is great; they seem to have mellowed to a degree and it's fine, but to me they've regressed a bit.
I look it at sort of the opposite.  I prefer their softer stuff; some of the earlier stuff was a bit too loud for me.
I can understand your perspective on that; they have done some pretty wild stuff.  Who else do you like in the "CC' format?
Oh, i'm a huge fan of natalie grant.  I think she is incredible; so inspirational.
I totally agree! i have almost every CD she has recorded.  What a voice! and such powerful lyrics!
I know, and one of the greatest things about her is you can hear every word she sings.  you don't even have to check the lyrics; she is so clear that all you have to do is listen and enjoy.
The thing about her albums is that there is hardly a weak song on any of them.  with most albums, you buy them knowing that not every tune is going to be good.  but her albums consist of, almost entirely, first class stuff.
absolutely.  and she does fast paced material, but also quite a few slower stuff as well.  some of the songs are real fun, others are very serious and make me think.
I know; there's a lot of emotion from her.  some of the tunes almost bring tears to my eyes.  there's one song; i can't think of the name, about a woman who's life consists of one heartbreak after another; yet she carries on and survives it all.
Oh i think that song is called "Our hope Endures," but i'm not sure.  but if it's the song you're referring to, I agree...it's a very sad, yet inspirational song.
Do you know if Natalie is related to the legendary Christian Contemporary singer Amy Grant?
I don't believe they are related.  As far as Amy Grant goes, she was one of the true pioneers of the format.  Well it's been nice talking to you about this great music format.
