Girl you know I love music all my life everything i do and did i am always listening to music but i find myself missing Michael Jackson making more music.
Yeah I liked Michael Jackson's music too. What are some of his songs that you only listened to occasionally. like not to much. and what are some you liked a great deal.
Well  if i didn't listen to them too much only occasionally this means your'e talking about the records he made i was not to fond of right.
Yes that's right i want to see if some of them are some of his records i may have not liked to much and lot's of his music i did.
Thriller remember that one I just could not get myself to like that particular hit. I know many people did but the zombies and the way they made the video just was not to much of my type of song.
No I was just kidding with you I actually liked all of his music but everyone has their own taste so it what ever you like you like and what you don't you just do not.
Oh I see you just want to joke around but seriously the songs i love by Michael was Human Nature, You rock my world, you are not alone. And there's much more.
Yes those were really great hits he got Grammy's for. I really enjoyed those too.and i liked the girl is mine man in the mirror and some of his older ones.
Cool so you must be talking about the Jackson 5 that was not just Michael that is when his brothers were singing too they were a group.
Of course nothing like the oldies I love them too. and I am not joking I am for real I seem to love that mans music. I think Jermaine and Tito got married and they went their own ways.
Well I think that is what happened too. Janet Jackson all of them they got grown up and started making their own records.
Yeah i just was listening to an old song of mikes on the radio Rock with you i enjoyed that in the house dancing.
What about any concerts have you ever been to any of his concerts are did he come to your town to perform?
No I wished i did have you ever gone to any? Or did he come to your town to perform? Have you ever met him Personally?
Almost when i was small he came to my home town where i was born and raised to do a show and he was going to perform on the Avenue. but the people got wild and ruined it.
Wow how did they ruin things? How could they stop the concert from going on? how terrible it must have been awful.
It was when the crowds saw Micheal they began to react violent they started breaking all the down town store windows and the cops came ran everyone away .shut down the area and Michael left.
That must have been a very bad experience and I know you had to be very disappointed not being able to see the King OF Pop it's been a pleasure talking to you nice I have to go see you around.
Okay next time we talk after woods we will go out for a bite to eat and maybe go to my house and listen to some music.
That would be very nice if i get a chance to win some concert tickets maybe we could go and try that what ever we plan is good see you later.
