Let's talk about Thursday Night Football. Is it a good idea or a bad idea?
The NFL on Thursday has been around for decades, and some of the NFL's most memorable games have been played on Thursdays.
But now players complain...
There is a move by the union to keep the players off the field as much as possible. This effort is not sustainable. The only concession the union is likely to get from the league on this point is larger rosters so more players are available.
A concession the union doesn't want...
Exactly. Instead of seeing increased value in growing the rank and file, they see decreased value in carving up the revenue pie into more slices. The union believes in the "fixed pie" fallacy.
What about the Cowboys dominating scheduling for prime time games?
This is a case of "the more things change, the more they stay the same." A review of the schedule from 1978-1982 shows the Cowboys in the same position, including playing in what were then novel Sunday Night Football games.
The Chiefs get a lot of attention in big game scheduling also.
Kansas City is a great venue for football, televised or otherwise, and the Chiefs have some nationwide appeal, and also the same "middle America" appeal that Green Bay enjoys.
Is playing in Mexico City a good idea?
I think so. Only the NFL knows if it makes money on such efforts, but it certainly opens up markets for the participating teams.
The Raiders are a good fit.
They are, and the Chargers should get on board as well. Taking the same approach to Mexico that Jacksonville has to London might have enabled the Chargers to stay in San Diego and make a go of it.
Will the Jaguars move to London permanently?
I doubt it. There are too many problems with that relating to travel, taxation and marketing. But their current approach to London is working for them, it seems.
Is NFL expansion on the horizon?
Unlikely. The "fixed pie" fallacy appeals to the league as it does to the union, and scheduling gets harder as more teams are added. There aren't many attractive markets for expansion.
Are any teams prone to relocation now?
Not really. Buffalo is secure with new ownership. Jacksonville is going nowhere. The Chargers might go back to San Diego, but that's unlikely.
