It must have been something to live in Manhattan in the 1970s.
What, with all the gangs and blackouts and street crime? Must have been something, yeah.
Well, okay -- but the music scene. CBGBs. All of the punk and post-punk and New Wave, it all came through there.
Right, there's that. I guess it makes sense that all the pain and poverty and chaos and whatever would turn into some groundbreaking art.
Yeah, art in general. There was Warhol and Studio 54 and everything. The night life basically came out of this whole scene -- everything we think of with dance clubs, and everything that came out of that.
Sure, I get you. But actually living there --
Well, let's forget the practicalities and live in the glamour for a moment. You're right, there's a direct tie between the chaos and the art.
There usually is.
I know, but specifically. Like, the black-out, it meant all these impoverished people grabbed all this cutting-edge electronic equipment and used it to invent hip-hop.
That... is interesting. I mean, it makes some sense, if you think about what hip-hop is -- it's all of these borrowed pieces stitched together, I guess, like the equipment that it was made on.
Exactly -- everything has its context, and is inextricably a part of it. That's the trade-off you get: live in boring times, and there's nothing to act against, except maybe that tedium.
Makes you wonder, then, why so much dark metal comes out of, like, Sweden and Norway. Don't they have the strongest social safety nets in the world, or thereabouts?
Yeah, I guess it's just a lack of sunlight. Everyone's depressed up there; it's like heart disease in the States.
Thinking about it, how far back does this go? The blues were pretty obviously created in response to their environment...
See, yeah, and that shows a point as to why so much music comes out of black America -- it's such a unique cesspool of inequity and horror that they've got to create some damned strong art to keep their heads up at all.
This is making me sort of uncomfortable to talk about.
It should! Just about any music with a beat that you or I enjoy is a result of cultural appropriation. We took their bodies, their labor, their wealth, their dignity -- and finally their culture that they use to cope with all of our abuse.
Man, I, uh.
I know. But, we can't help the world we're born into; it just helps to understand what we're working with and why it's there, if we want to do any better with what we've been given.
I guess, yeah, there's lots of raw material sitting around now to make something beautiful. I wonder if there's any way to repay the debt, though.
