I really miss 80's and 90's type music.
Me too! Music nowadays is so much different than it was back in. Different meaning worse.
I agree...and don't even get me started on music videos now.
They're horrible! I remember so many awesome music videos from the 80's and early 90's. What about you?
Yes, I do. I remember specific videos because they were so engaging and when I think of them it creates a feeling of nostalgia for me.
Can you give me some examples?
Yeah, like "Take on Me" by A-Ha, "Sledgehammer" by Peter Gabriel, "Land of Confusion" by Genesis, and the list goes on. Any specific music videos you like from the 80's or early 90's?
The ones you mentioned are good examples. I remember all of them! What about "Money for Nothing" by Dire Straits?
Yes I remember watching that when I was a kid! It was like, one of the first music videos I had ever seen!
Same here. Now it seems all music videos are about is who can show the most skin. It's disgusting. Either that or who has the most money.
I agree with you on that. I used to love watching music videos all the time and now I don't like them at all.
I think radio stations are going downhill too. The stations I used to love are playing songs that don't even seem like they fit into the genre of the station. Like Laser 99.3 is supposed to be rock music and I swear they've been playing borderline rap and pop for the last few years!
Haha, I know. I used to love that station. Now it's not even on my presets in my car!
Oh, I just thought of another music video I loved! "Opposites Attract" by Paula Abdul.
Haha yeah with the cartoon cat. I liked all of Paula Abdul's songs. She was great.
Yeah, she was. Hmm...what about New Kids on the Block?
Haha how can anyone forget the New Kids? They were all the rage in the early 90's!
That reminds me of another band that was all the rage in the early 90's...but not for long. Millie Vanilli.
Haha yup, as soon as they were found lip syncing on stage to "Girl You Know It's True", they were done with!
I never liked them anyway. Not as much as Paula Abdul.
