Have you heard about what Roger Waters said about David Gilmour this time?
Yeah, Roger said that David and him were never and WILL never be friends. Roger's freaking crazy.
I cannot wait to see Conor Oberst this weekend. I hope he plays Empty Hotel by the Sea or Cape Canaveral.
Good luck with any old stuff. According to setlist.fm, he's mostly doing new stuff, mostly Salutations and some of the newer Bright Eyes stuff.
I am so tired of seeing Aracde Fire all over Pitchfork's website. I swear they are such posers.
Who? Arcade Fire or Pitchfork? I assume you were referring to both.
Unbunny never released another album. It's already been like seven years and not one sign of life.
I bet he just gave up because no one liked his music which is odd because he reminds me of Elliott Smith.
I read that Belle and Sebastian were asking fans to email a photo of themselves so that they could pick a few fans for the cover of their new album.
I love their music but I don't want to pose like a pretentious hipster and then just have a color filter applied to the photo. Gross.
I was watchig some Frog Eyes videos on Youtube and some of the comments said that Carey Mercer was their high school teacher. How I wish I could say that!
That's funny but it's also pretty cool that his students like him because of who he is. Good for him.
I downloaded some live Wolf Parade songs on soulseek. The songs are actually good quality for being bootlegs.
I heard one of their live versions of I'll Believe in Anything and I could hear that Dan Boeckner was clearly the leader of the band. This whole time I thought it was Spencer Krug.
That Deerhunter show was freaking awesome. Did I tell you about how I met Bradford Cox?
Yes like a million times. You were walking into the bar and you looked up and saw him, blah, blah, blah. Also, I was there when it happened.
I bet you if anything that the last Beatle to die will be Ringo Starr. It looks like it's going to be that way.
Just our luck. I wouldn't doubt it since Paul McCartney had already died one time back when the Beatles were barely making it.
Have you seen the Dark Side of the Rainbow? It's when you play Wizard of Oz with Dark Side of the Moon at the same time.
Yes I have, but have you seen Alice Heart Motherland? That's when you play Atom Heart Mother along with Alice in Wonderland. Definitely worth it!
