Are you familiar with Rhonda Vincent?
I've never heard of her.  What type of music does she sing?
She is a bluegrass performer.  Are you familiar with bluegrass music?
You mean bluegrass like with a banjo?
Yes, banjos, mandolins, guitars, and such.  It is really popular in my region of the US.  Have you heard any of it?
Only in movies.  How big is it and what region are you in?
I live in the Appalachian Mountain region of the Southeast.  It has quite the following here.  Have you heard of Flatt & Scruggs or Alison Krauss?
Alison Krauss sounds familiar.  We don't really have bluegrass on the West coast.  Do you play an instrument?
No, I have wanted to learn and the local schools here now have a program to teach kids bluegrass instruments.  What type of music is popular out west?
We enjoy more popular type music and sometime the folk genre which is kind of like bluegrass isn't it?
I guess somewhat.  There are a lot of new, contemporary bluegrass artists nowadays such as Trampled by Turtles or Old Crow Medicine Show that are bringing awareness of bluegrass to the masses.  Ever heard of those?
Old Crow I think.  What is so great about bluegrass where you are from?
It is a part of our heritage.  Our region isn't known for a lot but music is something that provides a lot of pride and camaraderie  amongst the neighbors here. Have you ever traveled in the South?
No, never had the chance but I'd like to go try the bbq and maybe try the music out.
There are a lot of festivals in this area that combine the two quite well.  The biggest festival near  here is called Merlefest. Tickets go really fast for it.
Have you ever gotten to go?
No, my husband is not too into bluegrass as he's not originally from here so he has no urge to go.  I did get him to go to a smaller festival once and he didn't' complain too much.  Do you like festivals?
I like outdoor concerts so I think I would really like a festival with good food!
You should definitely come to the South and experience the culture of the food and music together.  You would really like it, I believe.
Thank you for sharing with me!  I'm going to go look up Merlefest now and see what it is all about!
