Have you heard about the Electric Daisy Carnival EDM festival?
No, I've never heard of it.
They were having the annual festival about a week and a half ago, and somebody died during it.
That's sad. What happened?
They haven't said the cause of death, but what was shocking to me was the news article said this was the seventh death since the festival started in 2011. Most of them were drug overdoses.
Oh, a lot of those electronic music fans do drugs like ectasy. Why do people think they have to do drugs to have a good time?
I don't know. They also said over 1,000 people needed medical attention. That was a 129% increase over last years calls, but they also had triple digit heat which caused a lot of that.
Where was it at?
Las Vegas. It's a 3 day event, and there was over 130,000 people there each day.
As hot as it was, and that many people, it probably made it feel even hotter being in big crowds like that.
16 people had to go to the hospital. They arrested 95 people, mostly for drugs, and had to kick out over 280 people.
Yikes. It sounds like a rough crowd. Festivals are supposed to be fun, not drugs and death and rowdiness.
I know. But apparently this festival is always like that. Last year they arrested 129 people.
It sounds like there is way too many drugs. Maybe they should have drug sniffing dogs at all the entrance gates.
That's a good idea! Drugs are too easy to hide if they're pills, there's no way they could search 130,000 people and find little things like that.
I bet it's a nightmare just trying to get in the festival with them having to search everyone for weapons.
It just seems like if you have a festival, and death is a common occurence, and medical treatments, and arrests, you need to refigure how to have a festival.
I agree. They need to have the national guard helping police, and every drug dog in the country they can borrow there, and hire more people with more entrances so they can search them better.
I think those are all great ideas. But I really think they need to reconsider how they do things, because just accepting those kinds of statistics is unacceptable.
I don't know why people would even want to go and put themselves in that kind of a situation. If you like electronic that much, go to a regular concert or hang out at a club.
