Are you going to Taste Of Chicago this year?
Of course, I go every year.It's the best food festival anywhere. There are so many venders, and so many different things to try.
Well, Taste Of Chicago is about food of course, but they also have bands playing every day so you have something to do while you're sitting down eating all the food items you bought.
Oh sure, I like going to watch the bands. I usually get three or four plates from different venders and grab a beverage and eat while I watch a band.
They usually have seven to ten bands a day playing, and July seventh there's a band I want to see- Ben Harper and the Criminals.
Oh, I remember Ben Harper. He was really popular about fifteen years ago.
Ben Harper is a fabulous guitar player. He's a terrific singer, and his live shows are always amazing.
He plays such a wide variety of genres, it keeps it from being boring. He can switch back and forth from a blues song to a rock song to a reggae song, and it all seems to blend together perfectly.
That's why I was asking if you were going to the Taste, I want to go on the seventh and see Ben Harper, but I need a ride because my husband's going to be out of town with our car.
Sure, I can go on the seventh. Hey, I have a Ben Harper cd I can bring to play in the cd player on the way there.
What cd do you have?
I have the cd he put out in 2003 or 4, Diamonds I think it's called.
Oh, Diamonds On The Inside. I used to have it, but I let a coworker borrow it and they never gave it back.
Don't you hate when people do that? It makes you want to never be nice and let anyone borrow anything ever again.
YES. And unfortunately, it's happened to me twice.
What was the other cd that wasn't given back?
Well, the first time a coworker borrowed my Ben Harper cd AND my Pearl Jam single cd, and then said she wasn't giving them back because she loved them. Later, a best friend borrowed my Sublime cd, and said she couldn't give it back because she loved it so much. I tried arguing, demanding, nothing worked, neither of them returned my cds.
That is just insanely rude! I feel so bad for you. Tell you what- I don't listen to the Ben Harper cd that much and I have a ton of cds. I'll let you have it to keep when we go to the Taste to make up for those creeps.
Wow, that is really nice of you! Thank you very much!
You're welcome, and don't worry- July seventh, we're going to rock!
