Do you like psychedelic music?
Oh yeah, I am very much into the Grateful Dead and Pink Floyd.
You know what the best Pink Floyd record is? Piper at the Gates of Dawn.
Oh really? I haven't actually heard that one.
Oh man, you're missing out! It's their most spacey record, if you ask me!
Is it better than Dark Side of the Moon? Wish You Were Here?
Well, they were a totally different band back in the late 60s. They actually had a different singer, Syd Barrett.
I had no idea! I've never even heard of Syd Barrett.
Yeah, he was the leader when they started out. Piper at the Gates of Dawn sounds like a completely different band compared to Dark Side of the Moon.
What happened to Syd, then? Did he just up and quit the band?
He actually lost his mind and they had to replace him. He became unable to function and had to move in with his mother.
Are you serious? So they ended up replacing him because he was insane?
Yeah, apparently he had taken too much acid and totally lost touch with reality. That's actually what the band wrote Wish You Were Here about.
Whoa, so it's a song to their own singer saying, "we miss you"? That's pretty cool, although super sad.
Yeah, Syd really only got to express himself on that first album, Piper at the Gates of Dawn. Try and find it in mono if you can, because it sounds way better than the stereo mix.
Is it like those Beatles albums, where the band was there to mix them in mono and then the label remixed them in stereo as an afterthought?
I'm not entirely sure, to be honest. But it's an interesting fact that they recorded Piper at EMI studios, the same place as the Beatles.
Really, so Abbey Road? Were the two bands recording at the same time?
Yeah, Piper at the Gates of Dawn came out in '67, and I believe the Beatles were working on Sgt. Pepper next door to them. I think I remember hearing that they visited the Beatles in the studio.
Wow, I feel like my entire world has been rocked. I can't believe I've never heard of Syd Barrett or Piper at the Gates of Dawn before!
