So if I'm looking to get into ambient music, what would you recommend?
That depends on what moods you're looking for, I guess. Ambient is such a varied genre.
Things have been rough for the past week or two over here, heh. So, I don't know, something cathartic?
Then I'd definitely suggest something sadder, or darker. Two artists you might want to check out are Steve Roach and Tim Hecker.
Great, thanks. I'm not sure how keen I am about the idea of "dark" music; I'm so used to music being uplifting and cheerful.
Wish I could say I understand that! I've always been a little put off by it.
What makes you say that? Doesn't everyone like to feel the energy from a beat?
Nah, not with me anyway. I haven't found something that sounds blatantly "happy" yet doesn't come across as extremely cheesy.
Well if it's okay with you, I'd like to return your recommendation with one of my own. Listen to Goldfrapp!
...Pop music?
Yeah, pop music, that's right. I know your impression of pop is probably not the best, but I urge you to give it a try. You might be surprised--her music is actually very thought out despite often being danceable.
I've added it to my wishlist... The way you talk about it makes it seem a bit more interesting, thanks.
Thank you! Also, I started listening to some Steve Roach on YouTube. I know ambient is supposed to be instrumental and slow, but is there supposed to be more than this throughout? I guess I was expecting more of a melody.
It's true that kind of music isn't really melody-centric, but that's part of why it can be so interesting and evocative. We're so used to the idea of melody that we don't get to appreciate harmonies as much.
Hey, I've always loved harmony too, and this definitely has that. I'm just not sure I get it...
Don't worry about it. It could be the kind of thing you find yourself enjoying if you just leave it on in the background. It's very "vertical" music, as opposed to horizontal, where it's focused on layers even when there's not a lot of change over time. It's supposed to have a hypnotic effect over you.
Yeah, I'll finish giving it a shot. This song is like an hour long though, it's kind of crazy. I'm also looking forward to hearing your feedback about Goldfrapp!
Heh, yep they're often pretty long. I think those kinds of ambient are called drone. Sustained tones and all that. I'll get back to you when I finish listening to Goldfrapp.
Sure, no problem. I appreciate finding someone who's open to exploring outside their comfort zone. I'm trying to do the same, haha.
Me, too. Even though I've been listening to sad music all this time, I'm not opposed to trying to understand things that I used to reject. Thanks for that.
