I'm looking for some new singer-songwriter types  to listen to, but they don't have to necessarily be recent.
Well who have you been listening to recently?
I've actually been really into Dylan lately. I never gave him much of a chance I was younger, but lately I've been enjoying him.
Yeah, if you didn't really grow up with him, he can  definitely be an acquired taste.
I'm not sure what happened. I used to find his voice kind of annoying when I was a kid, but then one day it just started working for me.
It's weird how that can just happen. Suddenly somebody clicks with you.
But even still I've kind of been burning myself out on him. Think I need to step away  and listen to something different, but I kinda want something with a similar feel.
You ever listen to Rufus Wainwright?
Oh yeah! Definitely a fan of his.
You ever try listening to his dad?
Oh Loudon? No, I mean, I know who he is, but I never really got into his stuff.
A lot of people only know him for that novelty song he did in the mid-70s "Dead Skunk", but he has a really good discography apart from that.
Oh yeah?
Well I was just thinking of him too because he was one of a bunch of artists in the 70s that used to get called "the new Dylan". His first couple of albums were mostly just him and a guitar.
Well I don't know, I'm not just looking for Folk, I've actually never been big on the genre until Dylan.
That's kind of why I bring up Loudon though, he's not really your typical Folk guy, he has a really strange sense of humor but he can also write a damn catchy tune.
I may have to check him out then. Anyone else from around that time I should investigate?
Well if you want something a bit more melancholy then Nick Drake is great, Cat Stevens... You ever listen to any Tom Waits?
Not really. It seems like everyone else has though.
Tom is great, and he's reinvented himself a few different times throughout the years. But you should try listening to his mid-seventies album 'Nighthawks at the Diner', I think you might really like it.
