How do you feel about Green Day?
You mean that grunge band from the 1990s?
Yes, basically. They're still touring and just put out a new album, Revolution Radio, in 2016. But, yes, that's the Green Day I mean, the grunge band that got big in the 1990s.
I see. In that case, I suppose my feelings about Green Day are ambivalent at best. Why do you ask?
Well, I'm a huge fan - like, a serious, lifelong, die-hard fan - and I just heard they'll be playing a secret show downtown next week, so I'm going to try to get tickets.
Wow, I had no idea you were such a grunge-rock girl!
You better believe it! Green Day was the first band I ever saw live in concert, back in 1995 when they were touring "Dookie."
Oh yeah, I think I remember that album - that song "When I Come Around" was all over the radio, if I recall.
Right! I mean come on, everyone one was a Green Day fan in 1995.
True, I suppose, though I was definitely more into Boyz II Men at the time.
Anyway, I guarantee they've done many, many awesome songs since then. "American Idiot," "Minority," "21 Guns" - so many!
Haha, okay, I get it - Green Day is good, Green Day is more than just a throwback band from the 1990s grunge era.
Thank you. And, trust me, their new album Revolution Radio has some truly amazing tracks on it. I genuinely believe that Billie Joe Armstrong is the Bob Dylan of our generation.
All right, I hear you. You have effectively sold me on Green Day. So, are you trying to get me to go to this secret show with you?
Yes I am. Do you want to go? I don't know how much the tickets are, but I'll pay for yours as long as you promise to dance and head-bang with me!
Hahaha - well how can I turn that down? Okay I'm in. Let me know some of your favorite tracks from the new album so I can have a listen and practice my dancing - er, or headbanging, I guess.
Excellent! Definitely check out the title track, Revolution Radio. It's a stone-cold classic. And also the three-part track "Forever Now," which includes  "I'm Freaking Out," "A Better Way to Die" and the reprise of "Somewhere".
You got it. Wow! I'm kind of excited! I might even become an actually Green Day fan after this, instead of just an ambivalent tag-along.
I should hope so. And, just so you don't embarrass yourself at the show, know that they're more than just "grunge" - their music covers a lot of genres, from punk rock to rock opera.
Noted. I shall heretofore refrain from pigeon-holing Green Day and its lead bard Billie Joe Armstrong. Now, let's get our hands on those tickets for the show!
