Do you like bluegrass music?
Yes, it's fine. I like the wholesome, country kind of vibe in bluegrass, unlike some genres where the cursing is horrible.
Do you like going to free music festivals?
I LOVE free music festivals. I'm always watching my budget, and anytime there's something fun that's free or low cost, I'm always interested.
Well then, July 8-9 there is a free bluegrass festival in Frankfort, Illinois. I want to go, and I was hoping you would too.
Sure, I can get the time off. It's two days? Does that mean a lot of bands?
24 bands are playing on two different stages, so that's about a dozen a day. They have both national and local bands, and they are some of the top bluegrass artists.
Where is the festival being held in Frankfurt?
It's going to be at Breidert Green, which is a huge green park area right in the middle of town.
Frankfurt is not that far from Chicago. How come I never heard about this?
I don't know. It's called Frankfurt Illinois Bluegrass On The Green, and this is the seventh annual event. It sounds like a lot of fun.
And just think, since it's free, we can chow down on food and drinks there. Will they have concession booths?
Of course, they will have lots of festival food. They also have activities planned, like workshops on bluegrass music, and activities for kids.
What kind of activities do they have for kids? I might want to bring my daughter.
They have kid's activities both days from 10 am to 6 pm, with free crafts, playing games, and they even have a tent where kids can go try out some instruments.
Oh, I definitely want to take my daughter to this festival. I'm always looking for special things to do with her on her summer vacation that she can tell everyone about when she goes back to school.
I think she would really like it. This is the kind of festival that's all about fun family style music and activities.
Bluegrass is the kind of music people like to dance to, and kids love dancing around.
They have lots of kid's activities- a museum, face painting, story time, painting, instrument introductions. We will have a good time, and it won't cost a fortune. She'll have plenty to tell everyone about.
All right, we are definitely going. I am really looking forward to this! I'm going to go buy a new swingy skirt for dancing around in.
