Hey James, have you ever listened to drake, he is a hip hop artist?
Hey Manoj, No I am not into hip hop music. Why you listen to drake?
Yeah he is fantastic, he wrote a bunch of hits recently, and the ladies love his music. Why don't you like hip-hop?
Hip hop makes my head hurt from all of the loud bass that comes out of the speakers?
Really, I did not know you don't like bass. What type of music do you listen to then?
I love classical music, like Mozart, Beethoven, and Bach. Have you ever listened to classical music?
I listened to classical music when I was in high school, but everyone thought I was a nerd and I never had any girls trying to hang out with me.
So the only reason you listen to Drake and hip-hop is because you want women to like you?
No that is not entirely true, I like hip hop because of the complex rhyme structure, the creative use of metaphors, and I of course love the bass, especially when I am driving, I like to blast the bass music
That is interesting that you like to blast the bass when you are driving. Do the passengers in your car like to hear the bass booming?
Sometimes when I am with a new girl and I am trying to have some fun, I like to blast the bass and listen to gangster rap to the girls reaction
How does the girl typically react when you blast the bass in your car?
Well there was this one time I was blasting DMX and the girl was so impressed that she would want me to pick her up after school each day so we could listen to DMX
Wow you are the man!! What if you tried playing Beethoven or mozart for her, do you think she would enjoy that?
Dude, she would probably run home, log into facebook, and announce how much of a loser I am to all of her hot friends.
But Beethoven and Mozart are so talented, they composed symphonies that have shaped so many minds and influenced individuals to pursue their dreams.
Thats great and all, but I think women like music that makes them feel wild and ready to party. I do not think Beethoven and Mozart are going to make any one want to have a little fun tonight
Perhaps you are right, when I listen to Beethoven and Mozart I end up studying astrophysics, math, chemistry, and x-ray crystallography
Thats so sad, next time you should put on some Drake or Nicki Minaj and go try and pick up a girl.
Sometimes my cat sits in my lap and listens to moonlight sonata with me, that is all the companionship I can handle at this point, my mom doesn't want me to have a girl friend
