You've been to a lot of alternative rock concerts, haven't you?
Over a hundred, back in the 90s mostly. I really loved mosh pits.
What was it about mosh pits you liked so much?
I loved the way when the band was happy, and the audience was happy, and they were all singing songs everyone knew the words to, and that feeling of all being one.
What was the best mosh pit ypu wee ever in?
Flaming Lips at Lollapalooza in 1994. They were singing this song, Turn It On, and the crowd started bouncing.
You mean literally bouncing, like up and down?
Yes. And there was a bubble machine, and the sunshine suddenly made this glow over the crowd, and there was this feeling of pure joy on everyone's faces.
You could tell everyone all felt the same happiness?
Yes, and I started giggling as we were all bouncing up and down, and the happiness floated out of all of us into the air just like an aura.
What was the worst mosh pit you were ever in?
Weezer, at a big venue where I was down in the pit. I'd always wanted to body surf and never had, and everyone was body surfing, and I thought this is the band to do it because they're so mild.
Uh oh, don't tell me- you body surfed and got hurt?
No, I didn't body surf. I was thinking about it, and suddenly out of nowhere a body surfer got tossed through the air, and there wasn't a lot of people around me to catch him, and he slammed into my head.
OH MY GOD. How bad were you hurt?
I was knocked to the ground, then taken to the medical office. I was pale white, blood dripping from a loose tooth, and complaining of shoulder pain.
Did you have to go to the hospital?
No, they advised I go home. I refused because I said Violent Femmes was playing soon and I wanted to stay and see them.
And so you stayed at the concert even though you were hurt?
Yes, with a blanket around me the medical people gave me. When I went to the doctor the next day, I had four broken teeth, neck and head pain, and torn shoulder muscles. It took months for the shoulders to heal, and the teeth had to be pulled. You hear about mosh pit injuries and hope it won't happen to you, but when it does, it's usually bad.
