I love how music artists help during disasters and tragedies. It's inspiring that they use music as a force for good when bad things happen.
I know what you mean. They seem to do it so often.
Ariana Grande did the Manchester show to raise money for victims after the bombing at her previous show.
That was heartbreaking to see so many young people hurt.
Over 50 musical artists sang together on a cover song to raise money for the London fire victims.
There were so many affected by that trajedy that need help.
Now two of the members of Radiohead are performing together at a show to help raise money for another tragedy. Thom Yorke and Jonny Greenwood are doing a duet concert.
What are they raising money for?
The concert is to help rebuilding work needed in an area in Italy that was devastated by the recent earthquakes.
When is the concert going to be? Will it be in Italy?
Yes, it's in Italy at a stadium on August 20th.
The earthquakes in Italy were last fall, weren't they?
Yes, but there were aftershocks after the original earthquakes, and a lot of tremors during the last several months, which is making the rebuilding efforts hard.
How scary. The people there must be weary from being worried all the time. At least the concert will give them something positive to look forward to.
Radiohead has been on tour promoting their album from last fall, so I'm sure they are busy. It's nice they squeezed in the time to do this concert to help out.
Hopefully it will be a sell-out concert to help raise a lot of money for the rebuilding.
Radiohead is a really popular band. They're the headliners at the Glastonbury this week. Plus, since people know it's for their own charity, I'm sure they'll be supportive.
Radiohead is a really popular band. They started the band back in 1985, and you have to be good to have that long of a career in the music biz.
I wonder why musicians are always the ones to take up the causes for fundraising though. How come you never see sports teams putting on a charity show?
That's true. Sometimes actors have fundraiser private parties, but you never see groups doing the big charity events like musicians do.
