Do you think that Britney Spears lip syncs her live performances?
I have heard rumors that she does, but I'm not sure what to believe. What do you think?
I'm not sure either. She's made a few statements saying she sings live, but her vocals just sound too perfect all of the time.
That's where I have my doubts. She's older now, but at live shows, her voice never wavers or hits an odd note.
Exactly. It still sounds exactly the same as when she was 15.
Do you think Is it possible that she sings along and hears her voice mixed with playback in her earpiece, and assumes that's what the audience hears?
I guess that could be it. I know her team has done some shady stuff, so maybe they're turning her mic down on her?
That would make sense, they make a lot of strange decisions for her, so it wouldn't surprise me.
She also doesn't seem to be the type of person that would go watch a playback of a performance. So if that's true, she might really not know.
There was that theory at the VMAs that she was singing live at the end which is why she switched to a hand held mic.
I remember that, she grabbed the mic, but it seemed like it was turned off. She didn't look very happy.
I wonder if maybe she lip syncs during the more intense dancing and sings live during the less intense dancing.
That was actually what made me start to question her singing live, the way she sings while she's dancing.
What do you mean?
Well, she's doing all this intense,hardcore,crazy, dancing, but her vocals never waver, not once. It just doesn't seem possible.
That's actually a really good point. I never thought of that.
In my opinion, whether she lips syncs all the time or only some of time, her true fans are going to love and support her no matter what.
Exactly. I really don't care either way, I'm still going to buy her albums and attend her concerts.
I doubt we'll ever know for certain what the truth is. As long as she's happy and putting on a good show for the audience, I guess it doesn't matter.
It definitely doesn't matter to me, I love her no matter that.
