I'm so ready for football to start.  Let's pretend we are doing a mock fantasy football draft.   You go first, we'll predict how the first round plays out.
David Johnson - 2,000 total yards, 25 touchdowns.
Nice Pick - Nest would be Laveon Bell - He gets tons of yardage and will have 12 touchdowns.
After that, I would pick Ezekiel Elliott.  He's running behind one of the best lines in the league.  He will do even better than last year.
I would pick Antonio Brown. He's a lock for 100+ catches, 1,300 yards, and 10 touchdowns
You have to go with Odell Beckham Jr. next, he's finished in the top 5 in wide receiver scoring every year he's been in the league.
Julio is a safe next pick.  Guaranteed yards and catches.
After Jones, I would pick Melvin Gordon.  He's improved and is the workhorse back in San Diego.
Next, would be Lasean McCoy.  He's getting older, but I think he should get 1,500 yards and 12 touchdowns.
Mike Evans - young star who keeps improving.  This year he tops 100 catches.
AJ Green - Very underappreciated.  If healthy, he'll be in the top 5 scoring.
Nice Pick.  I would take Jordy Nelson next.  He has one of the best QB's throwing to him.  He's a lock for 12 touchdowns.
Speaking of underrated, next would be TY Hilton.  He's been in the top 24 scoring for wide receivers every year he's been in the league.
I like it.  I'm going to take Aaron Rodgers next.  Might be early for a quarterback, but he is great.
Even though he gets hurt a lot, It's time Rob Gronkowski goes off the board.  He gives you production like a wide receiver does.  besides, it's fun to say Gronk!
I like Jordan Howard next. He's the only weapon that Chicago has.  He's a lock to get 25+ touches a week.
I really like Leaonard Fournette for Jacksonville, tons of touches.
How about Devonta Freeman for Atlanta.  I think he gets at least 12 touchdowns and 1300 yards.
Nice, who else could go next?
Tom Brady, Jay Ajayi, Michael Thomas, Dez Bryant, Drew Brees.  There's so many great players, it's hard to decide.
