Doesn't it just suck that the Steelers aren't any good anymore?
They made it to the AFC championship game, how are they not good anymore?
Well, we don't win super bowls anymore! WE need to change our defense up to compete with Brady.
You Steelers fans are spoiled. You still have the most super bowls and go to tons of AFC championship games.
This is true, but I am tired of running the same defense against Tom Brady for 15 years and losing.
Yes, I do remember in 2001 when you lost the AFC champ game to a young Tom Brady and he kicked off his stellar career.
The Steelers are always right there man. In the 1990s we had a shot to stop the cowboys and their dynasty in the 96 superbowl.
Yes, you also had a shot to stop John Elway and Denver in the late 1990s.
We are 6-2 in super bowls and unfortunately, the Patriots have passed the Steelers with most super bowl appearances.
I think that your record is safe, I don't see the patriots doing much more now. In fact, they wouldn't even be under consideration if it wasn't for Pete Carrol's dumb call in the super bowl that let them win.
That was an excellent super bowl. He would  have been a hero if the pass had worked though!
I disagree. This was one of the worst calls I have ever seen in football.
I don't disagree, but if the pass was completed for a touchdown, no one would of been talking about it at all.
I would have run the football every single time on that play. I would have run it twice.
SO what can the Steelers do to get back to being the best NFL team?
Well, I still think the Steelers are one of the top teams. They need to work on their defense when they play Tom Brady. You can't zone blitz against that guy.
I know, how frustrating. He always finds the blitzing man and picks us apart. For some reason, through 2 defensive coordinators we have never changed that in 15 plus years.
I tell you what, I think when Brady leaves the patriots, they will fall off. However, I think the Steelers will always be there, like they have been since the 70s.
Well yes, I agree. However, we would have to ignore the 1980s for that to be true. We were terrible in the 1980s.
True, but at the end of the day, we still have the model franchise of the NFL, in my opinion. We have won with three different coaches over the years. The patriots have not.
