Hey! Did you watch the Super Bowl?
I sure did. How does Atlanta blow a 28-3 lead?
They stopped running the ball. That and nobody is better than Tom Brady.
Yeah, I guess. I was so mad because I hate the Patriots.
Well this has been a tough decade for you. The Patriots have been so good and many experts think they will repeat this year.
Oh that's great. My Dolphins hopefully will be good enough to get to the playoffs and stop them.
I wouldn't count on it. You guys need a better quarterback. Tanned ill is okay, but he isn't a Super Bowl winner.
I think you are wrong about that. Sure he isn't Tom Brady or Russel Wilson, but he is good and can effectively manage a game. If you build a solid team you don't need to have an all star quarterback.
I understand that. Look at New England, Tom Brady turns scrubs into all stars. I just think Tannehill isn't effective enough to get it done.
Well, Tannehill has greatly improved every year in the league. Dolphins finally got to the playoffs last year. I have hope for him and this team.
Yeah, I guess it could be worse. You could be the Jaguars. If not the Patriots, who do you think can win it all this year?
I still think Atlanta has a great team. Matt Ryan is so consistent. They just have to keep giving the ball to Devonta Freeman. He can be a receiver to if they'd throw it to him.
Yeah, I definitely don't think Atlanta was a fluke last year. But, I think Carolina is going to take that division. They had a fluke season last year.
I think Carolina's fluke season was the one where they were actually good. I think the bad years are more Carolina's true nature.
No way. The earlier years Carolina had no talent around Cam Newton. And last year Cam was hurt. So I think the good year was more representative.
We will agree to disagree on that. Can we agree that Buccaneers fans are getting out of control with their trash talking and about how good they think they are now?
Yeah, there's best in the division isn't that good. There's no way they get by both Atlanta and Carolina this year. They do have some talent though.
I agree with that. But not enough talent to be a serious contender.
Dolphins are going to win the Super Bowl anyway, right?now that
I sure do hope so. I can't take another season of New England.
