The Broncos need to step up this year...man, do I want to see them go to the Superbowl again!
I absolutely hear that!  Gone are the days of John Elway, but we can always hope a miracle happens and Denver's QB manifests this season with a fraction of Elway's powers, my friend!
Well, if we just have an exciting season will make it worth it...it has been a long time since I viewed a Broncos game that might be deemed boring, one-sided or unsurprsing...
Tell me about it!  Not a year goes by that the match-ups don't seem fresh...
Yeah, even with all the advance technology, player and game data and statistics, etc., at our fingertips, the game still just boils down to the physical game.
Are you planning on seeing any Broncos games if they play here against Dallas?
Nah...I seriously don't want to have my spleen ripped through my nose by disgruntled Cowboys fans!
Really?  Were you ever at a game where the Cowboys lost to the visiting team?
Twice.  Once, when the Pittsburgh Steelers defeated the Cowboys, and another when it was actually the Broncos who totally stomped the Cowboys' score-wise...I was chased, both times, by unhappy, inebriated. sore-losing Cowboys fans who were displeased with my choice of fan-wear: a Denver Broncos jersey, of course!
Wow!  How'd you get out alive from Cowboys stadium both times?  Ha ha ha!
The first time, I essentially sprinted in terror until I reached my car and locked the doors!
And the second time?
I feel a little guilty about it....
Guilty?   What in the heck for...?!  Tell me!
Well, okay.  Yeah, the second time  I was at a game the Cowboys lost, my "escape strategy" was swapping out my Steelers jersey with a Cowboys jersey in a stall in the men's restroom.
Oh, you've got to be kidding!  You didn't!  Betrayal!
Dude, look, seriously...  Am I proud of it?  No.  But when it became apparent the Cowboys weren't going to pull off a tie, much less a score of any kind in the "not-humiliating" category, I wasn't taking any chances...!
Hahahaaaa!  You coward...!  Who DOES that in 2017, during NFL season?  Disloyal fan!
Don't give me a hard time.  Lets watch some NFL Summer Camp footage, huh?
Gimme a beer and the remote, buddy ol' pal!
