Have you ever noticed how the same music is used all over the place? Especially classical music in films and TV dramas and documentaries.
I know, I guess it's because after a while it becomes like a shorthand for an emotion or something.
It's usually one of the great requiems. Mozart's or Faure's generally.
Mozart's Mass in C Minor is used a lot too, that's a great choral work that's often mistaken for the requiem.
Then you have your modern classical alternatives. Max Richter...
...Sigur Ros, Olafur Arnalds...
It's funny how when it comes to classical music, or modern songs, there's no sense of exclusivity to them.
What do you mean by that?
Well, take John Williams. He'll write a soundtrack for a film and it'll forever only be used for that one film.
Right. I can't imagine the Jaws theme being used anywhere else, and it'll always be associated with that movie even if it is used elsewhere.
But Max Richter's "On the Nature of Daylight" must have been in a handful of films already, not to mention documentaries on TV too.
So is there anyone writing really good, big, orchestral and choral works these days except for film?
I'm sure people are creating it, but I wouldn't know how to find out.
It's almost like films are now the only outlet for that kind of music. It's a shame they keep using old music rather than create new pieces as there may be an undiscovered Mozart somewhere.
A lot of that kind of music used to be sponsored by the church and the great European monarchies.
I suppose they no longer have the need to be such patrons of the arts, what with commercial interests driving everything these days.
It was a power thing too. They'd sign up a leading composer to only create works for them, and that'd annoy the other kingdoms.
I'm sure I remember something about that when I studied Mozart at school.
That's right. You know it's rumored that his sister actually wrote some of his pieces, but the patriarchal society meant it had to be published in his name?
I do. It's one of the few Mozart rumors that has any solid evidence behind it that it might be true.
