I was just thinking today, what songs do you think have lyrics that really speak to your life and experiences.
Good question. I've thought about this a few times before.
Yes. Today wasn't the first time I've thought about it.
Three songs come to mind: Smile Empty Soul - Silhouettes, Staind - So Far Away, and Filter - Take a Picture.
Interesting three songs. Why does Take a Picture pertain to your life?
The lyrics sometimes really speak to how I feel about regret and not really living in the moment of good times in my younger years.
Interesting. Could you elaborate more on that?
Yes. The lyrics state, could you wanna take my picture, because I won't remember. I believe that slowing down and really enjoying life back then would have helped me enjoy my life more. I think that taking a picture is metaphorically referring to slowing down and being in the moment.
That is interesting. I could see where those lyrics could speak to that experience.
I also sometimes regret that I didn't really live in the moment and really take advantage of all I had to be thankful for back in those times.
I think we all have regrets. Now, I have to ask, what about the Smile Empty Soul song?
The lyrics seem to fit the case of my life and the experiences I've had throughout my entire life.
How so? Please tell me more.
Well, the lyrics say, I don't want to live like my father and give up before I die.
How does that pertain to your life?
My father was in an accident and it affected him so much that he ended up committing suicide.
Do you feel like you are going down the same path?
I feel that my life is really stressful and that I don't want to give up when things are so difficult. No, I don't think I'm going fully down that path, but I feel that I must stay strong in spite of all the hardships and never give up.
Interesting stuff. Sounds like you really listen to the lyrics of songs and they have profound effects on your life.
For sure. Sometimes I feel that some songs are speaking to me, lyrically.
