What one play in your team's history would you change?
I'd probably pick Demarco Murray fumbling in 2014 against the Packers.
I have no regrets about that. Going to two consecutive Super Bowls and winning one ought to be enough for any Seattle fan.
Absolutely, but that 'what if...' will always be in the back of my head. Then again, if we ran and failed (totally possible), we'd be wondering the opposite. Oh well.
I will argue to the ends of the earth that that pass play was the correct call. It just happened to be defended perfectly.
Should the NFL offseason be shorter? Why or why not?
No. Too many injuries if the season was any longer.
Could add more bye weeks to make season longer but still have 16 games.
I think this would lead to more injuries, but if it didn't, I wouldn't mind adding two more games and bye weeks. So the season would be 18 games and 3 byes.
See, I don't think we will see that much of an additional injury impact just because there is already a lot of injuries. You also have guys returning from injuries that were experienced early on, you always see that. Plus, the age old football motto of "next man up" will be more important than ever.
If it was any longer I think teams would need two byes.
They should already get on that. Give each team 2 byes, have them spaced out between weeks 3 and 15. That way they have football on more weeks in the year and slightly fewer games per week so smaller market teams don't lose as much viewership to big games.
3-4 game expansion wouldn't require an additional bye, in my opinion of course. They could offer more spaced out games, whether it be Thursday or Monday. Although, I get it.
3-4 more games? And not another bye? Why do you want football players to die?
Why is everyone so convinced that Jared Goff is already a bust?
He has no defined status. Being in limbo between bust and not bust status is much like Schrodinger's cat. If one is observed, the other must necessarily not exist; until the observation is made, both are correct.
So, in other words, to say he is a bust would be to make a correct (even if incomplete) statement.
Insofar as being both correct and incorrect at the same time, sure. I mean, you can't choose to be one or the other. If you make one statement, you must acknowledge the other.
well, yeah it'd be fallacious, I get all that, but I'm just trying to poke fun.
While joking about it is a lot of Goff hate. I also think right or wrong there is a perception that Goff is unintelligent due to his guffaw on Hard Knocks.
