You're a fan of Elton John, aren't you?
I would say i'm one of the biggest Elton John fans around.  i think he's great.
Me too.  i've been a fan of his for almost fifty years, since "Your Song" hit the charts.
Me too, and that remains one of my favorite of his songs.  It's a beautiful song with great lyrics.
One of the great things about Elton is that he has done so many great ballads, but so many up-tempo songs as well.
Definitely.  For example, he did "Satuday Night's all right for Fighting," and also "Candle in the Wind," and both are on the same album.
Yes, his classic "goodbye yellow brick road" album had those songs and so many other great tunes.
I think of all his albums, that one sold the most.  Almost all my friends at that time bought that album as soon as it came out.
I actually remember the day i bought that album.  I got it at the college bookstore, all those years ago when i was a student.
It's interesting that you remember something like that.  That shows what a great fan you are.  What are some of your other favorite albums that he did?
I always liked "Don't Shoot me, i'm the piano player," and i really liked "the fox," which was recorded a bit later, i think in 1980.
"the Fox?"  I"m not familiar with that one.
Well it's not one of his most famous albums; it has quite a mellow sound to most of it's songs.  I especially like "Chloe" which was not a big hit but which remains one of my favorite Elton John songs.
Didn't Elton go through a bit of a "slump" at one point when his popularity took a bit of a dive?
You're probably referring to the mid to late 1980s.  but when he worked on the "Lion King" soundtrack, that slump was a thing of the past.  His contribution to that soundtrack brought him hundreds of thousands of new fans who saw how versatile he was.,
Do you remember his song "Friends?"  That wasn't a big hit but i consider it one of his best.
Actually I do remember it.  there is actually a "Friends" soundtrack which i remember giving to my wife as a gift many years ago.
I never knew it was a soundtrack.  But i do own the single; on vinyl of course.  It was his follow up to "Your Song."
One thing people may forget is that he had a serious drug problem early in his career; but thank goodness he came through it.
Now that you mention it, i remember him talking about the drug problem during an interview.  you're right, it's very fortunate that he came through it.  nice talking to you about this living legend.
