i've been meaning to ask you. what's your opinion of Bruce Springsteen?
I like him; i wouldn't say i'm a huge fan of his, but i do enjoy some of his music.
I have to say that i'm a big, big fan of the Boss.  I've enjoyed his music since he came on the scene in the early 1970s.
wow.  you do sound like a big fan.  what about him do you like best?
The main thing is his charisma.  To me, no one puts on a show like Springsteen.  I"ve seen him in concert five times, and he always gives it his all.
Wow!  Five times! when was the last time you saw him, and where was it?
I saw him a few years ago in Philadelphia.  His whole band was with him.  he didn't have any warm up acts, and he surely didn't need any.  he was the only act we wanted to see.
No warm up acts? how long was the concert?
believe it or not he was doing his thing for 3 hours with no breaks.  it was amazing.
that is amazing, especially considering he isn't a young man anymore.  he must really be in great shape.
He takes pride in staying in shape.  he has said many times that he didn't like his appearance that much when he first broke onto the scene; and he got in shape and has stayed in shape.
that's proof of his dedication.  do you like his early stuff, or do you prefer his later material?
that's hard to say.  i like the "Nebraska" album which is almost 40 years old now, but i also like  "the rising" which is about fifteen years old.  those are probably my favorite albums, but i like them all.
it's pretty unusual for someone to come on the scene as he did and stay popular for so long.
that's right.  in that regard he reminds me of people who stand up to the test of time; people like Elton  John and Paul McCartney.
i'm sure you've seen that incredible video "nothing man," with all those shots of the events of 9/11.
what an emotional video and a great song.  he put his all into that song.  it's a great video but also heartbreaking.
It sure is.  that whole album "the rising" is a real good one.
Yes.  i especially like "Lonesome Day" on that album.  i think he actually earned a lot of newer, younger fans when he recorded it.
well you've certainly shown me you're a huge fan of the Boss.
