So, what the heck is "shoegaze" anyway?
Yeah, I know. It's... basically any band that tries to sound like My Bloody Valentine.
That's a genre now? Do they all engineer it in the same bizarre way, so you can't hear anything that's going on?
Some of them, I guess. It's part of the aesthetic, to a certain extent.
It seems to me any genre is basically a whole bunch of people who say, "I like what this guy does, so I'm going to imitate him."
That's what they are, exactly. It's not like anyone plans these things out rationally -- let's fill this sonic niche!
But it's getting absurd now. I can't understand what anyone is talking about, because of all this ultra-granular jargon.
Maybe you're just getting old. It's a thought.
You don't think this is super annoying, that three people decide they want to copy another artist and so suddenly that's a legitimate genre that everyone else has to keep track of?
Well, you don't have to do anything.
I guess I understand why bands almost never self-identify with a genre. And if they do, there's probably something phony going on.
Phony how?
Like... okay, there were a few bands in Seattle that made it big around the same time and shared a few loose commonalities, so people lumped them together as "grunge" music. None of them thought of themselves as grunge, because what the hell is grunge; they all had different influences, were doing their own things.
And they're all dead now, except one. "Oh ai-hi, o-oh, I'm still alive..."
Classy. Point is, okay, they're described as grunge -- but if you start a new "grunge" band, with the ambition of sounding like those other guys, there's something inauthentic about that.
Well, what's authentic? All art builds off all other art, and nothing is ever totally new.
There are degrees, you know. Not everything is some nihilist black-and-white shrugfest.
So you're saying anyone who deliberately starts a "shoegaze" band is automatically lesser somehow because they're buying into something that already exists?
That's not quite it. It goes back to form and function, I guess. All art is functional, in that its pieces all serve to communicate something -- but this is more formal than functional.
Formal, like a champagne flute wearing a tuxedo?
