'Truly are You really into Bach that much?, I've heard that you are!'
'No I mean it's OK, But a little heavy, I like mozart much better!.
So what do you like?, Say fugue, minuette, Or simply period Music sic!.....
I am mainly in interested in music flow, Or if you will sounds and stanzas as my belife is Music should tell a story!...
I'm very curious to know what do you think about Vocalists, Say Classic or Modern?.....
Hah, 'Thats a bit complicated and I dont expect Caruso but I like a good tonal range with a bit of 'Verb' on High Notes!'.
Still what about say other interests and especially so if vocalists? etc.
'That takes in a lot of teritory, See in classical I like instrumentals, yet in Modern Music I prefer Volcalists!.
'Thats great but do you like blends, Or Tonal Shades or recent trends in Electronic Sounds and music!'.
No I mean I like light operetta it's fun, But Merle Haggard is fun too especially the way he carries 'low notes'!.
'Wow great point and this conversation is really interesting, But isnt Opera and Operetta really dated?.
'Not really it depends on the Music, Sure in that light 'The Beatles' are really dated too, But some of their songs are neat!.
Sure I mean 12th Century Gregorian Chants were neat too but today except to Historians they are very dated!.
'Yet but look at modern 'Rap Preformers, where they just belt out words, Remember that too is a type of Chant or Story!'.
Ture and yes I agree there is type of connection tho the meanings are vague, So can you explain?.
'Surly,' 'As in what ever period Music is both to entertain, But also to send a message or a vocal way to send a Message!.....
'Then what are you feelings about instruments either String, Wind or even Electronic?'.
Instruments help set up the mood to make the story easier to tell,Plus some like Guitars are both String and Electronic!...
'Can you sum up or explain Music to every one, Or whats it all about!.
'A Good Piece has something for everyone, It's meant to relay a message, But also a feeling like Love Story did it's neat!.....
