What are your thoughts on the upcoming NFL season?
The New England Patriots will continue to be favorites so long as Tom Brady is under center and Bill Belichick is on the sidelines.
The Pats should be glad to finally have the Commissioner off their backs, eh?
I think being rid of that nuisance will help the Pats a great deal.
Are the Seahawks still a top-notch outfit?
With Pete Carroll as coach they are always in the mix, but the team lacks discipline and self-awareness.
Can the Chiefs get over the hump?
Andy Reid needs to have a Tony Dungy-type moment for that to happen. Kansas City has the pieces in place, but every part of the team needs to elevate its performance.
How will the Raiders do as slow-motion lame ducks?
I think attendance will be fine in Oakland, not like it was in Houston when the Oilers were winding things down. With Carr, Lynch and Del Rio, things will be interesting, provided Carr's injury doesn't linger.
How about the Rams? Can they improve?
They have a desirable attendance problem: they have too many fans coming to the games. The new uniforms are nice, but not as attractive as the royal blue and golden yellow garb people were asking for. But as a football team they have little to offer.
How will the Chargers fare in their new digs?
The small stadium might be a useful experiment for the NFL, but I think the Chargers still have an identity crisis. Some players are unhappy with the move from San Diego, and what looms after the small stadium experience is playing second fiddle to the Rams. What is their to really look forward to?
Are the Cowboys for real?
No, they are the same team they've been for many years. They won't live up to the hype until they tone down the hype. If Prescott stalls and Elliott is disciplined, then what?
Can the Falcons repeat their success of a year ago?
Unlikely. Losing the biggest game of all the way they did will hurt, and the new stadium will be a distraction, not a boost.
Who is a sleeper contender?
The Washington Redskins. They keep inching forward out of the morass that Daniel Snyder mired them in.
