Hey, you like country. What do you think of Florida Georgia Line?
Oh, man, some good musicians and bands come from there. Lynyrd Skynyrd, .38 Special, Molly Hatchet....
No, the group called Florida Georgia Line. They have that song they do with the Backstreet Boys.
Oh, you mean tractor rap and that computer generated pop with a twang.
I like them. That's the future of country music.
First of all, if George Jones had known the answer, he never would have asked the question, "Who's Gonna Fill Their Shoes?" Second, that's not country. Anytime someone like Pharrell is involved, it's pop music.
Well, everyone has different opinions of what's good.
True, but ther hasn't been any good music since the early 2000s, at the latest. Especially country. You should listen to some REAL country.
Ok, what do you consider REAL country?
Cody Jinks, Zac Brown, Chris Stapleton. Any of the Red Dirt country musicians.
Red Dirt? Never heard of it.
It's country music that started in Western Oklahoma and west Texas, like Lubbock, Amarillo...those places. On account that the fertile farming soil has a red tint to it.
Really? Never heard of it. I thought only Nashville has country music.
Not at all. Willie Nelson, Waylon Jennings, Garth Brooks, and George Strait can all be considered part of the first and second generation of the Red Dirt genre.
Ok. Who is your favorite from the modern ones?
I don't have just one favorite. Randy Rogers, Josh Abbott, Wade Bowen, Cody Canada, Sunny Sweeney...all good. Turnpike Troubadors, groups like that.
I'll have to check it out. Who should I start out with?
It doesn't matter. They're all good. I see you have Slacker radio on your phone. Open the Red Dirt station and listen to a couple of songs. I'll wait.
WOW!!! Totally awesome. THIS is country. Thank you. You saved me from the banal dysphonic cacophony that Nashville is trying to push on us. I'll NEVER listen to FGL or Luke Bryan again!!!
My pleasure. Just trying to save people's taste in music...one genre at a time,
