Hey, Ms. T. What kind of music do you listen to? You listen to Taylor Swift?
Ha! Nah. I like all the genres, but just the really good stuff from each one.
I bet you like that country music though.
I like my country prior to the 90s. Johnny Cash, Dolly Parton, Loretta Lynn. But that's not all I like.
What? Maybe you like that Classic Rock stuff. What's that. . . Queen?
Oh yeah. Freddy Mercury spends a lot of time in my head and in my CD player. He's a good ol' fashioned loverboy! Ha. I never got into the Doobie Brothers, but Tom Petty? Yessss. And Jimi Hendrix? I like a lot of different music types. Could you tell?
My dad likes to listen to some screaming stuff, really loud and thrashy. Metallica? Is that a thing. Oh, and some Judas preacher, or something.
Well, Metallica is bad-A, but I'm not huge into the heavy stuff. And you know I don't like loud stuff. But I'm a huge fan of the music on Cartoon Network's Metalocalypse. Have you seen that one?? Brendon Smalls is a genius. Did Loren Bouchard work on that one?? Bob's Burgers is his, and it always has music too. Why am I asking you? Never mind.
What's your favorite of all the music?
Classical music runs through my veins. Even opera. You should listen to Carmina Burana, Carl Orff. You've probably heard part of it on horror movie soundtracks.
I can't get with opera. (sings random notes in falsetto)
Or, hey! You want heavy metal? The great great grandfather of metal, Mr. Mozart, and his Requiem. That jank ain' messing around.
You're crazy, Ms. T. Don't you listen to anything normal? Anything, like, from less than a decade ago? And especially not hundreds of years ago, dang.
I had a boss once that made me learn the words to the first few verses of "It takes 2 to make a thing go right." Want me to rap for you?
How about no? And I said LESS than a decade ago, ol' lady.
How about Pink Floyd?  They go all the way back to the 60s, but the members are STILL putting out new stuff, as recent as, 2016, I think, with Endless River.
What do they sound like?
Well, they started out pretty psychodelic, but after Syd Barrett left the band, their music just turned into a gorgeous psychological exploration of life and emotion. If you've never listened to Dark Side, you're missing out.
Maybe I'll check it out. Do me a favor. Go home tonight and listen to Kanye.
Well, maybe. But only if you go home and listen to Outkast and the WuTang Clan!
