You know what I adore? The music of Vivaldi.
Who? Is that a classical composer?
Yes, Vivaldi was classical, but his work is really described as "chamber music".
What's chamber music? Music played in a chamber?
Well, yes. it refers to a very small group of musicians. Vivaldi preferred a violin or two, a viola, and a cello.
So what tunes have I heard? I seem to remember some pieces that I think I saw Itzak Perlman and Pinchas Zuckerman playing.
I remember that - they played The Four Seasons on PBS, and that was really amazing.
but - tell me why so few instruments are involved. What is chamber music, really?
Oh, Antonio Vivaldi really championed it. Rather than having such a huge orchestra, a chamber group can play in a very intimate setting, where people can get much closer to the musicians.
So it was made for smaller venues. I get it!
Yes, apparently Joseph Haydn is considered the father of chamber music. He organized the pieces into parts: the sonata, the lyrical movement, the minuet or schertzo, and the finale.
So it opened, then there was a middle, as sort of humorous part, and then a big ending.
Yes, that's right! The thing about chamber music is that it was more personal and social.
I've heard there used to be singers fronting those groups in the middle ages. That's cool, like having your own band in your house!
Well, that's really what chamber music was for. Imagine being a king, or a prince, and you want to party, who better to invite over and jam with than a few of your favorite musicians?
That's wild, thinking of medievalist and romantics, partying in their homes like we do today!
Yeah, you know when you study history, you learn that people were not that much different from people today. They all loved entertainment, especially music.
And a chamber group was the equivalent of having your own karaoke band in your own home!
Can you imagine what it must have been like, having Joseph Haydn or Vivaldi, or even Mozart visit your house?
Mozart did chamber music? Oh, yeah, I saw that in the movie, "Amadeus"!
