Have you heard any new records recently? I'm looking for some new tunes to enjoy.
Well the two most recent records I've been listening to are Linkin Park's One More Light and Enter Shikari's The Mindsweep.
I heard the new Linkin Park record isn't that good and it's only pop. Is that true?
It's all very pop. They wrote the melodies and lyrics first, and then the music. They also brought in songwriters to help them with the record. They've never done that before.
So what do you think of the record?
I think it's really inconsistent. The first half is excellent and then it fizzles out in the second half. Also, Good Goodbye sounds like older Linkin Park.
Do you think I should listen to that song first then to see if I should give the rest a chance?
Absolutely! I think you'll like at least a couple of the songs off the record. They have some cool smaller guests on the record.
Who are the guests? Anyone I would know?
There's a female vocalist named Kiara on the song Heavy. Good Goodbye has Pusha T and Stormzy on it as well.
I have no idea who either of them are. What about Enter Shikari?
Oh yeah, Enter Shikari is super awesome! The Mindsweep is 2 years old, but super unique. That band should be way bigger than they are.
What makes them so special? I've heard multiple times that Enter Shikari is really good but haven't gotten a chance to listen to them.
They toe the line between multiple genres. And they have tons of different electronic pieces in rock music that makes it super creative and something that's never been done before.
That sounds pretty cool. Is it like techno?
No, not at all. However, Enter Shikari does do their own remixes sometimes, and has remix albums for The Mindsweep if you want just straight electronic versions of the record. It's super great and done by a bunch of artists off of Hospital Records.
Sounds like they do a whole lot of different stuff.
Absolutely. Just when you think they are going to stay in one genre, they completely change it up. They are insanely talented. Also they have one of the best live shows ever.
Where is Enter Shikari from? It's a weird name.
They are actually from the UK!
