If the team can get a solid start from BG it could really help set the table for a quick learning curve by Davenport, who in his own right is a pretty smart cookie.
I'm a firm believer that Mancz earned the starting OC job based on last years production.
He was the most consistent producer on the OL during the season.
He's learned the calls and most of all, he had to help carry poor play at both G spots for the majority of the season.
Su'a-Filo finally came on towards the end of last season, giving me a lot of hope that the light finally went on for him and 2017 could be his arrival season.
RG never gave Mancz a break...he helped cover the weak RG and the TE's had to help cover the weak RT. For this reason, I would roll the dice with Martin learning the RG job from the very start of the off-season program.
BG, like Brown brings the veteran savvy to the comers which could finally help solidify this OL.
There will be plenty of bodies competing for backup spots and this could finally be on track to a decent and confidence building season.
I like the idea of Martin being protected by Mancz and Giacomini during his rookie season.
I would like to see Foreman become the feature back and Miller be the backup...or change of pace guy
Miller played a little heavier last season to compensate for the amount of carries he would be responsible for and he didn't do too bad.
but he had his limitations.
I'd like to see Miller drop 15 lbs. and be a scary good 2nd or 3rd down back where his ability to get outside and catch the ball would have to be accounted for by opposing defense's.
Foreman would finally bring a dynamic to. The red--zone that this team has.
Sorely missed since the AF days.
Ervin holds onto the RB4 spot. If the OL is better, this group could really help the QB's.
TE's could get better if thei job was to play a traditional position and not have to be the extra blocker covering for a weak right side.
I like this receiving group and feel like the team needs to find a way to utilize. Wendell. Williams. He is my sleeper on this offense.
He's mediocre to me because he hasn't done anything.
Dude hasn't thrown a TD yet. How in the world is that good.
