Hey man can you please turn that music down i am trying to concentrate i have a test to take in class tomorrow?
I don't want to turn it down I love music i am a fanatic fan of music i am devoted to all kinds of music.
Well that's nice but i cannot seem to study if you keep blasting that music and that record you are playing right now by Rhianna what is the name of this song? it's really loud.
It's called Umbrella the lyrics are really loud it has the rapper Jay-z starring in it.
Yeah she slammed that hit record. I like all of her songs she can really sing and dance.
Well that's nice and it's cool but listening to that loud music isn't going to help me pass my test tomorrow.
Maybe you are right but before i turn it down i have to listen to a few more records first. I like this one too it's also by Rhianna Don't stop the music.
It's okay but i like some of her other hit songs how about only girl in the world. Her video wasn't too bad it was mostly just with her performing in it.
You got that right and she had a red wig on and was standing inside this huge field dancing all around in a bunch of flowers.
Then she came out with diamonds was that before or after either way she did great with that song too.
You know she was dating Chris Brown and he brutally beat her up and i did not like that violence is not cool.
I heard about that they were in court quite a few times and that,s not healthy for someone's music career.
But she stayed strong and left Chris alone she didn't let that interfere with her music career.
Nope she continued making her albums she is an out standing artist. and she sings good.
What else was rocking by her oh yeah she also did a song with Chris Brown and Jay-Z.
Until all that nonsense had to happen then she begin seeing drake. I know she made some music with Drake.
Of course she made a few songs with Drake I know one is work another one is What's my name.
Wow you know Drake and Chris Brown had been fighting not good for the music business.
That is all over with I think i listened to enough loud music while also talking to you for a while. So i will turn it down now.
Alright thanks so much i really appreciate the conversation about the music and you finally turning down the music.
