I couldn't help overhearing a Depeche Mode song as your ringtone. Do you like 80's music?
I do. It was the music of my formative years, and I still listen to it.
I do too. We have got to be around the same age to remember them, and The Cure, Big Country, and the great dance club hits.
Oh yes! We loved dancing to "In a Big Country" at the club we went to. That and The Cure, Duran Duran, Flock of Seagulls. Those were my favorites.
I liked the more Goth groups, like The Swans, Cocteau Twins, and some of the Love and Rockets songs.
I guess I was more in tune with the UK groups, early on, like Aha, Thompson Twins, and Haircut 100. They really made you move on the dancefloor.
I agree, there were a few Uk groups I liked,. Talk Talk comes to mind, and my personal favorite, The Smiths. Morrisey's whiny angst still thrills me.
Hahaha, YES! You pegged him. He did do well as a solo artist, though. I wonder what he's doing now?
I heard somewhere, that he is still touring, although not extensively.
I would go see him, even though we are old now, haha. There are still a lot of 80's groups still touring.
Yeah, you're right. I went to go see Flogging Molly a year ago. They were still rocking and still punk as heck.
I was into punk as well. It was the Pogues that got me into punk, follwed by the Clash. It was kind of a natural progression.
I agree; I heard my first punk rock song on the bus to school from an exchange student, it was Black Flag, six pack.
I lovedHenry Rollins!! What a great vocalist. A great writer too. At some of his shows in Detroit, he sold books of his poetry
I was really lucky to catch a show at St. Andrews in downtown Detroit. They were amazing. Over the top energy. I did get to talk to him after the show. Really nice guy.
I know that venue, they hosted a lot of great concerts in the 80's.
I saw so many shows there, and a lot of the big names, like, Men at Work, Legendary Pink Dots, Echo and the Bunnymen, Nina Hagen, Toad the Wet Sprocket and many others I can't remember
Wow. I don't think I've seen that many, but I did have front row for Flock of Seagulls, and managed to catch Squeeze when I was on a trip to England.
Wow, I almost forgot about Squeeze! I loved Black Coffee in Bed, and Pulling Mussels from a Shell.
I know! Black Coffee in Bed is my karaoke go to song! Hey, I have to go, it was nice talking to you!
