What do you think of when you think of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania?
Um, steel mills? Historical buildings?
How about music, such as a great music festival with a variety of musical genres?
No, I didn't really think of that.
August 4th through the 13th this year is when Bethlehem becomes a musical place to be. It's called Musik Fest.
What kind of bands will be there?
Santana, Chicago, Fathjer John Misty, Live, Aloe Blacc, Godsmack, Toby Keith by the f- ford series, The Band Perry, Lee Brice and Justin Moore, and Jethro Tull by Ian Anderson.
That really is a diverse line-up. I wouldn't mind seeing several of those bands.
Tickets are sold out for the first three bands, but the rest still have tickets available, ranging from $39/49/59/69/89/169. It's a big indoor theatre with three levels.
I've sat in cheap seats before in the higher sections. You can still hear the music, and I just took binoculars, and then I could see the stage just fine.
That's a good idea. I did that once too.
What else is there to do there?
There are all kinds of other activities, dance performances, comedy acts, kids activities.
Are there any free activities?
There are lots of free performers, music, dance, comedy, hoops, all kinds of things. So if you don't want to pay for the headliners, you can just go watch all the other free bands.
How many different acts are there?
Friday August 4th under the free guide schedule, there are 24 different performers during the day you can see for free. Some of these will perform multiple days. There's a schedule of all the free things to see.
Well, that's great, because if you're on a budget, you could make a camping trip out of it and just go to all the free performances.
Absolutely. Saturday for example there are a bunch of free bands performing, as well as a glass making display, a woman twirling hoops, and a guy who rides a unicycle that is dressed up like a unicorn. So there's lots of free music, but other things to see too.
I kind of thought of Pennsylvania as being a serious bunch of people, I didn't know they loved music and loved performances of all kinds so much.
