What do you prefer, to stream music or own it?
Owning it is always preferable, but to be honest, streaming is just so much easier.
That's true. I hardly ever buy MP3s because I can just listen to songs on Spotify.
I use Pandora myself, but Spotify is good, too. But if I buy music I try it on CD, since the quality is higher than MP3.
Sure, it might be a little bit higher, but not enough to justify buying a whole album when I just want one or two songs, you know?
I get what you're saying. Buying individual songs is more convenient in the same way that streaming is.
Yeah, you can just listen to what you want without having to sit through all the filler material.
Another big advantage is discovering new music. Since you don't have to pay for each song, it's easier to find new artists you like.
Spotify is pretty good about that. They have a whole "Daily Mix" and "Discover Weekly" which helps you find new songs.
What's the difference between those?
Discover Weekly is just brand new songs, and it changes every week. Daily Mix is a mix of old and new songs, divided by genre.
I'm guessing your suggestions are based on music you've listened to before?
I think so. It's a bit like YouTube in that it recommends you new things based on your data.
Actually, since you mention YouTube that's a pretty good place to find music too.
True, though, I didn't use to like YouTube for music. Back in the old days, like in 2008, the bitrate wasn't so good, so music didn't sound very high quality.
That was almost 10 years ago! The quality has come a long way since then, and YouTube is a great place to find new music as well.
I agree, I've found a lot of smaller artists and songs you can't really find anywhere else.
Yeah, not mention covers of songs by amateur artists. It's great for that.
You know, YouTubed Red was actually born out of Google Play Music and was meant to provide high-quality, commercial free music and recommendations before they expanded to they whole website.
I've heard that it's actually a pretty good service, even compared to Pandara, Spotify, and Apple's offerings. I'm happy with Spotify, but if I were ever to switch I would probably consider them.
