What is your favorite band of all time?
I have a lot of bands that I love but I'd probably say The Pixies as my absolute favorite.
I like them too. Steve Albini is one of my favorite producers and he made Surfer Rosa with The Pixes.
Yeah that album definitely has a different sound than the rest of their albums. It's more raw and emotional.
Exactly. That album sounds like they are right there in the room together playing, rather than being slickly produced.
Their other albums are great too but none of them really capture that sound. I especially love David Lovering's drumming on that album.
How would you describe The Pixies sound to someone who had never heard of them before?
I'd say it's simultaneously playful and angry with extremely catchy music. A big element of their music is the Frank Black's screaming style and Kim Deal's soft background vocals and full bass sound.
Some people say that the entire concept of a quiet verse and loud chorus was invented by The Pixes.
I don't know if that's true but that's their signature sound for sure. They were doing that before the style became popular in the 90's.
Did you like the album Bossanova?
Very much. I know that at the time it came out, Pixies fans were a little disappointed but over time it's become more recognized as a fantastic album.
Some of their best songs are on Bossanova. Dig For Fire, Veloria, The Happening. Just amazing stuff.
I think at the time people were a little put off by it because it was more slickly produced and didn't sound as raw and intense as Surfer Rosa and Doolittle.
There was also much less backing vocals by Kim Deal on that album which was a staple of Pixies music.
There's some of that but yeah, she sing much less on that album. Her bass parts are still prominent and wonderful though.
It's really too bad that Kim Deal left the band a few years ago. It almost doesn't feel like The Pixies without her.
It is too bad but I think that Paz Lenchantin was a great choice as her replacement. She brings a lot of the same attitude to the band.
Do you like The Pixies newer music?
It's definitely not as good as their music from their heyday but it's pretty good. Not amazing though.
