Do you know my greatest disappointment in technology in my life was the first time I heard a CD?
What? Why? There's the full range of frequency with digital.
Yes, and no tape hiss or the "snap, crackle and pop" like we had with records.
Then why were you disappointed?
Well, the music did NOT "tickle my ears" like I used to get listening to records with a good set of head phones.
What was the first digital recording you ever heard?
I think it was a CD of "Beethoven's 9th Symphony", and it really didn't sound as good as I had expected.
I remember being a kid in school in 1972 when they showed us a "Scientific American" article or something, about the "music player of the future".
Yes, I remember. The promise of lasers playing music, no needles on the record, no more tape hiss!
Then again, have you considered that maybe the years of listening to loud records with headphones damaged your ears a certain way?
What do you mean?
I remember getting a tiny magazine in the mail dealing with tape enthusiasts, had an interview with Pete Townshend.
Oh, the guitarist with the Who? He's done great interviews about all the old equipment, the tube-powered stuff, right off the top of his head.
Right. And maybe your complaint about digital music sounding "dead" and "sterile" explains why records and tube amps came back again!
And I seem to remember a Peter Townshend interview where he mentions musicians being deaf in only SOME frequencies.
Yes, from cranking the amps really loud while playing live, in front of the "stacks" of speakers. I think he was with a charity dealing with hearing loss.
My gosh, listen to the opening of "Hush" by Deep Purple. You can HEAR the amp hiss BEFORE they start actually playing.
Probably stuck a microphone in front of a speaker to create a "live" sound for some of the instruments, I guess.
So maybe a new generation born after 1987 or so, who never listened to records with headphones, have different ears than me?
That's what I've been thinking lately. The process of listening to music changes our ability to hear the music?
