Have you heard of the band Death Grips?
I've heard their name, but I've never listened to them. Are they any good?
Well, I love them now, but I think it's an aquired taste. The first time I heard them, I thought it was a practical joke.
Really, why's that? What do they sound like? Are they a comedy band or something?
No, it's just the first song I heard, it was just really discombobulating and it sounded like a homeless guy yelling at me.
Hah, why on Earth would anyone want to listen to that?
Well, there's something really primal about the rapper of the group, MC Ride. He sounded funnny at first, but the more you listen, the more you get into the obscure energy of his performance.
So he's a rapper? And he's just yelling like a Homeless man? Is he like, schizophrenic or something?
It kind of sounds schizophrenic at first, but I think that's the point. That song in particular seems to be about losing your mind to drug-induced paranoia. I think it's just so far out there that I wasn't sure how to listen to it at first. Now, I seriously love that song.
Does it all sound like schizophrenic homeless rap? I mean, I just can't understand why anyone would want to listen to that.
Actually, their new material is a lot more accessible and catchy. Their latest album, Bottomless Pit, has a lot more of a pop ethos.
So would you reccomend listening to that album first? Is it all just screaming?
No, and when you really start to listen to what he's saying, it becomes a lot more poetic. It's pretty psychedelic, actually.
What song would you reccomend listening to first? Do they have anything with hooks?
Well, if you're listening to something from Bottomless Pit, I would reccomend the song "Eh." It's got a really cool video on YouTube if you feel like checking it out.
Alright, sure. I mean, if you reccomend them that much, I might as well see what it's about.
You'll like the song "Eh" because it's pretty low key and has a pretty melody. It's one of their least abrasive songs.
Pretty? I just don't understand how hearing a crazy dude yell garble at me could be appealing, but maybe you're right.
The more you listen to his rap, the more you'll understand where he's coming from. Plus, they have a really cool drummer, Zach Hill, and if you look his videos up on YouTube, you'll see that he's one of the fastest and most original drummers in music right now.
I've heard of Zach Hill before, didn't he used to play in some punk bands?
