Have you ever heard of the band Hop Along?
No, I haven't. What are they like?
Well they're from Philadelphia, recently got on Saddle Creek Records, and have a female singer.
Oh, I really like Saddle Creek, that's awesome!
Yea, it was very cool to see them get signed to that label. Anyway, so the music is kind of singer-songwriter-ish, but is a bit experimental with melodies and tends toward distorted guitars.
That sounds like something I could get behind. How did you learn about them?
Well, the first time I saw them it was just the singer playing a solo acoustic set; and actually she ended up using my guitar for it.
What? That's crazy, how'd that even end up happening?
Well, it was a local house show. I wasn't playing that night, but I had a tendency to bring my acoustic just in case because there'd been times where I'd been added to the bill at the last minute to stretch a show out. In any case, she came without a guitar so I offered up mine for her to play since I wasn't going to be using it.
Very cool!
Yea, at the end of her set I told her I couldn't play that guitar anymore because it would never again sound as good as when she was playing it. She's not much better than your average good guitarist, but her voice was absolutely gigantic in that tiny bedroom we were packed into. She's a really talented singer and writer.
Haha, yea I guess after someone completely blows you away on your own gear it can be kinda hard to go back to playing it. Did she usually play solo at the time?
Yea, occasionally I think she had her brother on drums, but I believe that was mostly just on recordings at that time. She now plays with her brother still on drums, and accompanied by another guitarist and a bass player. I'd say the majority of her shows now are full-band sets.
That's interesting how the band developed like that. Very cool that she is able to play music with her brother, too. What did you like more, seeing her as a solo act or with the full band?
That's a difficult question. No doubt she is good enough on her own to completely blow people away; but the full band sets are such a great thing to experience too.
If you had to choose one?
I'd say the full-band sets. She definitely gets really into having the band around her, and I think she tends to push her performances more in those cases. Plus, she plays with a bunch of very talented musicians.
Yea, that makes sense that having her band with her could get her more psyched during a set.
So what do you think, will you check them out?
Oh, absolutely; I'm about to try to find some live videos on youtube right now!
