I would like to take a few minutes to ask you how big are you on Whitney Houston?.I was a really a fanatic of her music.
I am a huge fan of Whitney i mean who wasn't or didn't want to be she was a fabulous and sensational singer.
Most of her records were really fantastic I liked I will always love you, I have nothing,I want to dance with somebody. and the greatest love of all.
And I liked liked the music from her hit album that had saving all my love for you ,one moment in time, The greatest love of all.
These came out in the early years of 1988- 1992-1995- I believe and so on.She was from Newark New Jersey.
I also liked her acting skills she was also a great actor and made some movies with many soundtracks from her music.
Have you ever seen her live? She performed just as well as she did on her albums and in her videos.
I used to have her album One wish the Holiday Album. I'm your baby tonight. That's as live as it gets.
She had even more albums i just adored Just Whitney, I love I looked to you. Especially her first Whitney Houston.
Oh yes she had sound tracks from the Preacher's wife Waiting to exhale all great songs.
I have some still today that will always be my favorite The body Guard the romance love and music was off the hook.
What does off the hook mean? does it mean cool?
Yes you are correct it means just that so cool. I am just glad that i have lots of her records still with me.
Yeah me too the ones i don't have i just hear them when they come on the radio.
Yes there are always numerous radio stations that we can find her music on including You Tube.
Online has all of the information you need to know you sure can find all her albums and video up there.
True I don't think i have ever took a look at her video All the man i need. Which one haven't you seen?
I am every woman it's an old one and i still did not get to see that video yet .Heard the song but did not see the video.
Well for all of her music that we didn't get to see we can always find it on Goggle or You Tube.
After her death so many people especially those who knew her personally are left sad but her memories of her music and just being Whitney will go on and on.
