Have you ever been to North Carolina?
No, what's going on in North Carolina?
I was checking out music festivals for this summer, and Asheville, North Carolina has music festivals going on all spring, summer, and fall.
I might have expected that if you were talking about Nashville, but you said Asheville.
It's really amazing how many different music festivals and celebrations there are going on, and it makes me think these people seriously love music.
What kind of things are going on?
In August they have live concerts with an outside stage outside of the Biltmore hotel. It's national performers, with the mountains in the background.
That sounds really picturesque.
In September they have a Brewgrass Festival, with craft beer and Southern Appalachian music.
That sounds kind of folksy and fun.
In August they have a Goombay Festival. with gospel, reggae, funk, and soul music. with African- Caribbean food.
Oh, that sounds really different. It's hard to find Caribbean food, and I love the sounds of gospel and soul.
There is a HUGE mountain dance and folk festival in early August. Mid August is Riverfest, with local musicians, craft beer, art, food, and a river raft competition.
It does sound like the locals really love music- and food, and beer, and fun.
August is also the time for the Sourwood Festival, where they celebrate their famous honey, with food, honey tastings, and local musicians.
When do these people work and sleep? It sounds like a non-stop party!
I know, that's what I was saying. And I haven't even mentioned a whole bunch of festivals because it's the end of June and some have already passed.
So this does go on all spring, summer, and fall?
Yes. And speaking of June, from late June through late July is the Swannanoa Chamber Music Festival, with 15 concerts by quartets and individuals, playing string and wind instruments. It's considered the best chamber music festival in the Carolinas.
This is amazing. Anytime would be a great time to visit Asheville and hear incredible music, not to mention food, beer, and other fun activities. This is definately a place for music lovers to go on vacation!
