So, what do you think has changed with the widespread accessibility of music online?
You have to do a lot less legwork to find artists you're interested in.
No more listening to the radio to hear your favorite song, or calling the station, right?
Yeah, the direct channel to your content is right there now. You can just point and click and there it is.
But are young music fans missing out on something now?
I think so, because there's not as much ambient "surfing" of the radio dial, or watching MTV the way Generation X did.
And that can provide a musical education.
Sure, in the sense of drawing connections between artists, and you know, things like Kurt Cobain wearing a Flipper T-shirt on SNL.
And then the next day, you would go and scour your local record stores looking for Flipper, this mysterious band that had to be cool if Kurt dug them.
Totally! Now you can just kind of Google them, and you're hearing their entire discography in 10 seconds.
But that hasn't really gone away, the "breadcrumb trail" sort of approach to music fandom, right?
No, it hasn't. I mean, you can spend hours on YouTube clicking on related videos, or you can see Kendrick Lamar giving a shout-out to Killer Mike on Twitter...
And then you can go buy a Killer Mike album on iTunes. Or visit a record label's website to learn about their roster of artists.
Sure, and that's fun and exciting.
The thing I think is interesting, though, is that this is all mediated in virtual space now, as opposed to at your local record store.
Yeah, and I miss the experience of going to one, hearing what they were playing, and asking the clerk what it was.
Or just hanging out with your friends and listening to records, hearing them say you had to hear this new one that came out today.
It's true. Music listening is, I think, less social than it once was, and tastes are a lot more fragmented.
We can all have these very separate media intakes, and curated experiences, versus a common ground we all agree one, like "Sgt. Pepper."
Yeah, I think so. And so I feel a little nostalgic for those days, but hopeful for the kind of new music these plugged-in fans will make.
