Do you like country music?
I like some singers.
August 17th through the 20th, there's a big country music festival in Brownsville, Oregon, called the Bi-Mart Williamette Country Music Festival.
Who's playing at the festival?
A lot of people, but number one on my list is Keith Urban.
Oh, I love Keith Urban.
There's a bunch of people playing, Thomas Rhett, Dierks Bentley, Zac Brown Band, Parmalee, Billy Currington, and lots of others, but I'm a big fan of Keith Urban.
Keith is the total package- he's got a great voice, he's super cute, and he seems so sweet and kind.
There are still general admission tickets that are a four day pass for $155. General admission is a big empty grassy area behind the VIP chairs, and you have to bring your own chair.
So it would basically really be "going country" by being out in the grass.
Yep, and if that isn't country enough for you, there's camping sites available. You get one vehicle pass, up to 6 adults, and 2 tents allowed for $200 for a four day pass.
Hey, that's really not bad, $50 a day for lodging. It would be 3 times that if you had to get a hotel room. And you could split the cost with whoever goes.
There are some add-on costs that are optional- $200 for a one day pit pass, $60 for a special entrance pass, $7 for each shower, and $25 for a special solar eclipse party.
I think I would shell out the extra money for showers and the solar eclipse party.
Yeah, that does sound fun. It's also $10 for a parking lot pass for the four days, and if you want to order it online, you have to order it by this Friday.
So we'd have to check our schedules and decide soon if we wanted to go to this.
Yes. But think how much fun it would be. The weather out in the West in August should be dry and warm. It would be a perfect camping trip because there would be entertainment every day.
And we'd get to listen to Keith Urban singing live!
YES. Plus lots of others- RaeLynn, Amy Clawson, Kip Moore, Bailey Bryan, and lots of others. Four days of hanging out, singing country out in the country.
All right, I have some vacation time. I'm in.
