Did you get to watch the BET Awards?
Oh yes, it was so many different artist who performed, best performance was from French Montana and Swae Lee . Breathe taking!
I believe Chris Brown and Mary J.Blige performances were great too, How about Miss Cardi B. She was very fashionable with her stage costume..
I really haven't heard too much music from her I mean i have seen her a couple of times on Instagram, and the reality series show Love and Hip Hop.
You should really listen to her music, empowering, a bit raunchy, if you have children around keep them out the room very explicit .
Have you ever heard of Luke Bryan ?
You talking about the Country singer, yes of course. His album Kill the Lights was pretty good!
I believe he fist came out in 2007, he use to write songs for his  longtime friends from high school, performers Travis Tritt .
He made it pretty quick handsome young man! Sorry ladies he married!
Good artist to look out for Khalid, he has nice tone to his voice gives off a relaxing feel.
I heard one song from him , he is currently number 3 on the billboard charts .
What do you think about Muddy Waters, Nina Simone, and Ottis Redding ?
Well well, now we talking music greatest  rhythm and blues artist of all time. Along with Ray Charles,Etta James , and James Brown.
Yeah i so agree, my favorite Nina Simone song is Feeling Good. She was such a great part of music history.
How about the duet between Ray Charles, and Nina Simone Baby I'ts Cold Outside.
You got me there that song till this day gets played around Christmas time in my house.
Since we are talking about legendary  music. What about Michael Jackson or the Jackson Five?
A lot of these kids now in 2017 should be thanking Michael for his bold contribution to Music and Dance. All the kids dance like him.
He has been a great performer since the Jackson Five, trendsetter, and he has really left his mark on this world. Globally he was very loved for his music .
The temptations were very good group as well.Have you heard of them ?
