Have you ever been to Festival of the Lakes in Hammond, Indiana, for their July music festival?
No, I've never been there. I know where Hammond is, it's only about half an hour or 40 minutes from Chicago.
It's held at Wolf Lake Memorial Park every July, and it's a really unique musical festival.
What's unique about it?
It last for 5 days from Wednesday through Sunday, and every night it's a different kind of genre, so there's all types of music. It's usually a main band and an opening band.
Wow, 5 different nights of music? That must be fun for people who live near there.
It's really great if you live in the neighborhood within walking distance, because then it's free. For everyone else, it's $25 per vehicle for one night, or you can get a 3 day pass for $60.
That's not really expensive, if you have three people in the car and split it, it's only a little over $8 each.
The stage built in a cool open face building in the park is on a big grassy area, where there's plenty of room to sit and see everything up close.
Is there food available?
Yes, a ton of food trucks parked along a paved area. And across from the grassy area is a huge space with a carnival, with lots of rides you pay to go on, and all the usual concession stands and game booths.
A carnival and a concert both in the same space? That does sound like fun!
It's open from 5 pm to midnight. And if you go early, from 5 pm until dusk, they give free pontoon boat rides on the lake that is also right there by the grassy area and carnival.
The pontoon boat rides are free? Nothing is ever free these days! What kind of bands are playing?
The headliners this year are Kool & the Gang, Bush, Dick Diamond & the Dusters, The Crawpuppies, Limp Bizkit, and Flo Rida.
Bsuh and Limp Bizkit? Those are some serious bands to get to see that cheap depending on how many people you can get to come in your car.
They have other events going on, a golfing thing, a fishing tournament, a 5k chairty walk, senior's day, special person's day for handicapped people, fireworks usually one or two nights. There's a lot going on.
And they do this every year?
Yep, it's a city party for the citizens to enjoy their city and park, but everyone is welcome no matter where you're from. Tons of police around, so no violence or crime, a really safe fun time- unless you have too many beers in the beer tent.
No violence or crime. Cheap and tons of things to do. Nearby parking. Summertime out on a lawn enjoying the nice weather. I want to go !!!
