I'm in the mood to listen to something interesting. Any suggestions?
How about Jane's Addiction? They're pretty unique.
That's a good idea, I can't think of any other bands that sound like them.
Perry Farrell has a very distinctive singing voice and style about him. That's for sure.
Do you like their newer music or do you stick to the older stuff.
I kind of consider new Jane's Addiction and the original Jane's Addiction to be two different bands. Their new stuff is very different and honestly not as good.
That always seems to be the case when a band gets back together after several years apart. It's just too difficult to recapture the same creative magic.
Perry Farrell and Dave Navaro became celebrities on their own and they just don't have that same spark as they did when they were younger and just a weird band from Los Angeles.
Okay so which albums of their is your favorite?
A lot of people would say Ritual de lo habitual was their best but I'm going to say that Nothing Shocking was my personal favorite. It really capture that Janes Addiction sound.
That's such a good album, every song on it is amazing. I likes the song Jane Says and Ted Just Admit It.
Don't forget Had A Dad and Summertime Rolls. Like you said though, I could call every song on that album my favorite.
Janes's Addiction was alternative music before the term alternative music existed. They were way ahead of their time.
What great is that at the time in Los Angeles, hair metal was the big thing but they were off just doing their own weird thing.
A lot of musicians cite them as being hugely influential.
What's amazing is that they only put out two albums in their entire early career. People think of them as this huge force in the late 80's but they weren't even around that long and then they broke up in 1992.
They also had that self-titled album just called Jane's Addiction. It wasn't really an album though because it was a collection of demos and live songs.
They were pretty popular locally before they signed to Warner Bros. Records.
Didn't Jane's Addiction also make a movie?
Well that was more Perry Farrell's personal project but it was about him and his girlfriend at the time. The name of the movie was The Gift.
