Have you ever listened to any King Crimson?
They sound familiar, but I can't recall for sure. What kind of music is it?
They are a classic progressive rock band from the same era as Yes and Pink Floyd, etc.
I see. I like that style of music but I rarely listen to it. You don't hear it on the radio very much.
King Crimson, in particular, is not played on the radio nearly as much as Yes and of course not as much as Pink Floyd.
Yeah. Pink Floyd is a constant thing on classic rock stations. They're really great though.
I think King Crimson, in terms of artistic merit, is every bit as good as Pink Floyd, if not better.
Really? How would describe their music?
Well, they have a long history going back to the '60s, so their style has varied quite a bit over the decades, as have the members of the band.
I see. How does their classic sound compare to other bands from that era?
I would say it's more hard-hitting when it comes to the lyrics and vocal style, while the instrumentals are less complex, but very experimental at the same time.
It sounds like an odd mixture.
They definitely don't sound like any other band from that era, although there is definitely a feeling of the classic progressive rock era. I would say this is mostly because of the jazz influence.
That's true. The prog-rock groups from the classic rock period had a very jazzy sound.
I would say in the case of King Crimson the jazz influence is even more apparent than Yes or Pink Floyd.
I don't listen to much jazz to be honest. After a few minutes it gets kind of monotonous or just uninteresting.
I know what you mean. Jazz has a lot of long improv solos that are good, but they don't keep you engaged like a well-constructed song does.
Yeah - The long jam sessions sort of lose your attention, but the music is good for ambience, especially in coffee shops.
True. If you're trying to expand your musical taste into progressive rock, though, King Crimson is a must. They are considered one of the most important bands of that era.
I'm definitely interested in that kind of music, and I probably have heard them but just cant recall any of their songs at the moment.
