Do you like Latin music?
somewhat, there are some artists that I think do a good job.
What Latin artists have you listened to?
Well, Shakira, Juanes, Marc Anthony, Enrique Iglesias, Daddy Yankee and Luis Fonsi
Yes, Luis Fonsi, did you see this guy is on the peak position of "The 100 Hot" on the Billboard?. 19 weeks on the chart, that is impressive for a Latin artist
Yes, you are right, the last time an artist had such success was in 1996, 21 years ago. Los Del Rio were 14 weeks in the No. 1 with their song "Macarena"
That was a very catchy song, this guys are from Spain. Fonsi's song "Despacito" has a catchy chorus too. Do you know what does it mean?
"Despacito" translates to slowly and "pasito a pasito" translates to step by step well actually little step by little step.
What is that music genre that they use lately, it is a mix between Reggae and Tropical or something like that?
They call it Reggaeton, It a fusion between Latin rhythms, dancehall, and hip-hop or rap. It is a very rhythmic genre.
I have had the opportunity to see some awesome dancers that use Salsa music to do great performances, they dance very fast, it looks like swing dancing.
Yes, you are right, The World Salsa Championships. The term "Salsa" started in New York and one of the most representative artists for this music genre was a group called "Fania All Stars".
Yes, there is a bunch of Latin music genres: Salsa, Merengue, Bachata, Vallenato. Those are good if you want to meet some Latin girl, but you have to dance well.
That is funny. I recently knew that Justin Bieber was trying to sing in Spanish.
Yes, he did well at the recording studio but he forgot the lyrics in Puerto Rico during a concert with Luis Fonsi
For real? well, it is common for Latin singers to sing in English but not vice versa. What I really like is electronic music, you are full of options to choose from.
Yes, I love the energy that you feel when you listen to this music. There are many awesome DJ's: Tiesto, David Guetta, Skrillex, Avicii, Armin Van Buuren, etc.
Yes, I would like to have the opportunity to go to one of the best EDM festivals, "Tomorroland" in Boom, Belgium. Would you like to go too?
Of course, but not just to this, I would like to go to: Electric Daisy Carnival, Sensation, Ultra Music Festival, Global Gathering, etc. I think we have to save some money if we want to go there.
You are right, while this happens we can go to Miami and to spend a great time there.
