Are you into progressive rock at all?
What is progressive rock?
You might be familiar with it from bands like Yes, Rush and Pink Floyd.
I'm definitely familiar with Pink Floyd, but haven't listened to Rush or Yes, although I've heard of them. What makes the music so "progressive"?
I think the term is used because some bands from the 60s and 70s experimented with a lot of styles and sounds to try and create very unique music. Progressive music is also characterized by a high degree of musical prowess.
What kind of musical prowess do you mean? That's kind of vague.
You're right. In the case of progressive rock, it has more to do with the instrumental parts and the highly-developed abilities of the performers.
You mean they can play a lot of notes, basically?
There's the technical ability, and it's also the willingness to expand the chord structure and use different time signatures and rhythms.
So it's much more complex, kind of like progressive jazz?
That's exactly right. In fact, progressive rock has a very obvious influence from jazz that you can hear in the music at times.
Which bands do you think really epitomize this kind of music?
I think some of the less mainstream bands are more progressive sounding. Bands like Gentle Giant, King Crimson and Yes are much more complex and experimental sounding.
Which albums do you think are good examples of this.
Well, if you like Pink Floyd, you will find that some of their earlier albums, before Dark Side of the Moon, are much more experimental. A good example is Ummagumma.
That's a weird name. It sounds like something a caveman would say.
In general, I would say the late 60s and early 70s is a time of experimentation and you will hear albums with some really weird stuff going on.
What else do you think characterizes this music style?
Well, in the mid 70s I think these bands became more serious and started releasing albums with long tracks that were up to 20 minutes long. Rock was transforming into a fine art genre, but people began to lose interest and sales dropped.
That's always the case. When an artform progresses to a more sophistocated level, it takes more specialized people to appreciate it.
