Do you ever listen to Big Band/Swing music?
Yes, I love that old music and go in spurts listening to it now and then.
My favorite group was Glenn Miller, who was yours
Benny Goodman.
Do you have a favorite singing group from back then as well? Mine was the Andrew Sisters.
I love them too and they were my favorite group as well, they had such great harmony and enthusiasm behind their music.
What was your favorite song of theirs, mine was Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy of Company B.
I love that song to, that guy can really wail on the trumpet, but my favorite song of theirs was Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree.
They had so many great songs, it's hard to choose from.
I wish you could find their CDs nowadays, I've looked but didn't have much luck.
Never thought of that, I still listen to my LPs. Back in the 80s, my mom asked what I wanted for Christmas and I said a Andrew Sisters album, she was startled, I was even more so when she actually found a double LP greatest hits of theirs, I've almost worn it out!
I'll have to check out eBay and see if anyone has LPs or CDs for sale.
Did you know the Andrew Sisters were from Minnesota? My home state.
Wow, I didn't know that, I grew up in Minnesota as well. I'm going to have to look them up.
That was so sad what happened to Glenn Miller.
I never knew anything about him, what happened to him?
He was serving in the Army in World War II and they had him put a band together to entertain the troops. He was in England and he was flying over to France to set up some concerts for our troops over there, and his plane disappeared over the English Channel.
That's terrible, did they ever find out what happened?
No, it's still a mystery. There are a number of theories, there was some heavy fog and they think the wings might have iced up and they crashed in the channel, a bomber group was also returning after having to abort their mission because of the weather and it was standard procedure to drop their bombs into the English Channel rather than risk landing with a full bomb load and the bombers were coming over the same area of the English Channel as Glenn's plane was, going in the opposite directions, so they think if Glenn's plane was flying low, splashes from the bombs or the concussions from them could've knocked him down.
I'll have to look him up as well, sounds like a fascinating story. When I go home tonight, I'm really in the mood to put some of their music on again.
