Have you been listening to any new music lately?
New as in released in the last few months, or new as in new to me?
Either, I guess. Mostly new to you.
New as in released recently, no, but new as in new to me, I'm enjoying Von Thronstahl and Black Goat of the Woods.
I've never heard of either of those things. Do I even want to know what that is?
Von Thronstahl is mostly instrumental, it sounds like Lord of the Rings or something should be happening in the background. Very epic and dramatic.
That sounds kind of awesome, actually. Anything in particular I should check out?
The entire Imperium Internum album is pretty intense, highly recommended if you like that sort of thing.
I'm guessing Black Goat of the Woods is sort of a Lovecraft type of thing?
Kind of. It's completely avant garde, so a song might last forty-five minutes and it won't sound like what most people would even call a song.
So, it's a little like Coil, or some of the experimental Rozz Williams stuff?
I would say so, it would fit into a playlist with either of those perfectly. Add a little Current 93 and some of NASA's Voyager recordings, and stir until done.
Ha, that actually sounds awesome. Both very strange and very relaxing.
Other than collecting ever more music that makes people say, "What's wrong with your stereo?" I'm listening to a lot of oldschool punk.
Aw, man. Sex Pistols, Clash, Dead Kennedys kind of stuff? I miss when punk was PUNK and not radio-friendly trash like Green Day.
Even less popular than that. Stuff like The Germs, the Circle Jerks, and The Ultras.
I love The Ultras. Man, I wish there was more than that one album. That IS all there is, right?
As far as I know. I would probably surrender a kidney to have a live Ultras show, especially if it was video and not just audio.
I think I'd take either one, it's really depressing how much art has been lost because there weren't cellphones then.
Oh, how I agree. Broke punk kids in clubs tended not to have the ability to make bootlegs of shows.
