Have you decided to go to Riot Fest this year? The lineup is ridiculously good this year.
I know, I know. Having Nine Inch Nails and Queens of the Stone Age on the same lineup is insane. I'm not sure if I can afford the $190 3 day pass though.
You only live once. I bet you would regret not going if you didn't end up going.
You're right. I probably will end up going. The rest of the lineup is very good too, I mean...Dinosaur Jr., TV On The Radio, Ministry, Paramore...the list goes on.
I am very excited to see Paramore's set this year. I never really cared for them until their After Laughter album just came out.
Oh yeah, is it good? I've been hearing good things about it.
It's actually really great, I'm shocked at how good it is. It has a very 80's nostalgia-themed vibe to it.
That's a very stark contrast to their previous sound, with the alternative-goth-esque sound they had.
Yeah, and it's really refreshing. David Byrne would probably think it's derivative of Talking Heads, but I don't care. It's great.
I love it when artists take a risk like that and totally go in a new direction. If they're talented enough, it almost always pays off.
Like when Kanye put out Yeezus? That album came out of nowhere and was brilliant from the first second.
Yes, exactly like that. The textures on that album are so raw and dark, it wasn't exactly radio friendly either.
And that's what I loved about it. David Bowie did the same thing, but throughout his entire career.
You know, I am still very upset that he died. The man was an icon to millions, myself included. I literally went home and cried the day he died after work.
He went out in such a Bowie-esque way, too. Putting out one of his best albums, and then dying two days later. Only Bowie could have done that.
I have a hard time listening to that album, Blackstar, actually. It's such a great meditation on mortality and it's a really beautiful record. But it's very sad too.
Yeah, especially the last track, "I Can't Give Everything Away." It's one of his best songs.
I'm still bummed I never got to see him live. His concerts were the stuff of legends.
Yeah, I would have given anything to have seen him on the Outside Tour that he did with Nine Inch Nails.
Whoa, they went on tour together! I had no idea. I need to find some performances on Youtube...
