Hey, have you heard that song "Gun Powder and Lead" by Miranda Lambert?
No, I can't say that I have. What kind of artist is she? I don't think I've ever heard of her either.
She is a country music artist, country music is my absolute favorite!
I don't really listen to country music all that much, I'm more interested in pop music. Rhianna is my favorite!
I like Rhianna too! I love her song "I love the way you lie" with Eminem. But I am still more of a country music kind of person.
I'll have to listen to that song and see if I like it. Like I said, I'm not big on country but I'll give it a listen anyways.
Let's listen to it now, here, I have it saved on my phone. I think that you will love Miranda Lambert.
Okay, turn it on and we'll give it a listen....
So, what do you think? If you like it I have a whole playlist of her songs that we can listen to on my phone.
You know what, surprisingly I really like that song! I love the lyrics and she has a beautiful voice!
I know she is amazing. If you like her you will really love Carrie Underwood, she has so many amazing songs it's hard to choose just one for you to listen to.
Really? What does she sing? Let me listen to one of her songs. I may like country music after all, haha.
Well, my favorite by Carrie Underwood is definitely "The Next Time that he Cheats." Here, listen to it.
Wow, she has an amazing voice! I really like that song a lot too! Okay, I've listened to yours, now you have to listen to mine.
Okay that sounds fair, play me something.
Okay, we are going to listen to Beyonce singing "Single Ladies", here we go, tell me what you think.
Wow, I love it! It's not the type of music I listen to but maybe I should give it a chance. She has a beautiful voice as well.
Maybe we should both give more music a chance, there are so many great artists out there, maybe we shouldn't stick to just one kind of music.
I have to agree, lets look up the newest songs out there and listen to them together, it should be fun.
I agree, lets get started. It's exciting to think of all the wonderful songs out there that we've never heard before! Lets start with rock, it's something that neither one of us listen to so it's new and different.
