What do you think of the new Arcade Fire song that was released today?
I love it, but the breakdown in the middle of the song with the flute comes off as pretentious to me.
Yes, I agree. However, it's still a great song and seems very vital considering the state of the world right now.
Yeah, I have no doubt the album will be fantastic. Did you hear that Radiohead are releasing the 20th Anniversary Edition of OK Computer soon?
I did hear that, yes. The super-deluxe edition vinyl is something I desperately want to purchase, but it is hard to justify the $130 price tag.
I think it'll definitely be worth the money, considering how much bonus content comes with it. It's a wonderful collector's item, and it's only fitting to buy it since I think it's one of the best albums of all time.
I'm tempted to agree with you, but I will always think In Rainbows is a tighter, more consistently perfect collection of songs. I think OK Computer has one or two filler tracks, like Climbing Up The Walls and Lucky.
No way, Lucky is one of the hidden gems on OK Computer. You always hear praise about Paranoid Android and Subterranean Homesick Alien instead.
That's a good point, but it still feels slightly bloated to me. It's also a very heavy listen and can be incredibly depressing depending on what mood you're in.
That's what makes it a brilliant work of art, that paranoia, malaise and uneasiness seep into every second of the album.
I think you should give In Rainbows another chance. It's a perfectly short 40-minute suite of seduction pop.
Don't get me wrong, I love In Rainbows, it's easily one of Radiohead's best. But it's not as revolutionary as Kid A or OK Computer.
I definitely agree with the Kid A part. You'd be hard-pressed to find a band completely reinventing themselves like that in a more dynamic way.
Listening to it still gives me chills. How they could come up with a song as unsettling as Idioteque is beyond me.
Agreed. It's one of their most unique songs, and luckily they always play it live in their setlist. Did you know I saw their set at Lollapalooza last year?
Really? That's amazing, I've always wanted to see them live. They hardly ever tour though.
I'm telling you, it was the most surreal, wonderful and amazing concert I've ever been to. It was almost a spiritual experience, it was that good.
I don't doubt it, each one of the band members are consistently at the top of their game, and have the precision of classically trained musicians.
Yeah, and they did not disappoint in the slightest. I hope I get to see them again in my lifetime before they call it quits.
If you do, take me with you!
