That music sounds strange. What language is it in?
This is a Japanese band called Sound Horizon. They're what's known as a revolving door band.
It has a nice beat. What is a revolving door band?
That's where the band has only one or two core members, and they bring in other musicians and artists to perform with them for a set period of time. In this case, Revo founded the band and is the only core member.
What genre does he play in?
He incorporates a lot of different styles in his music. He even uses different languages and draws from different eras through history.
Like the Revolutionary War?
Each album more or less encompasses a story he's created that takes elements of history, culture, or a language and builds around it. For this album, "Seisen no Iberia", he took the Iberian Peninsula war and created a love story,
That explains why the music has an almost Latin feel in some places.
If you listen to the lyrics, the woman uses fragments of Arabic, while the man, Revo's character named Shaytan, uses Spanish.
He's very talented, then. Who writes the music for him?
He composes it himself, and even writes his own lyrics. He also has an album based around France and the tradition of burying infants and children with dolls.
I didn't know that was a thing.
Another album, called Marchen, is set in Germany and has references back to the Black Plague as well as Spanish conquistadors. Revo is a master at weaving his albums together so that all of them take place in the same universe.
There aren't many bands that produce music in the form of full stories. I'll have to look them up.
Revo also has a band named Linked Horizon. He even works solo to compose music for anime, such as the opening for the new Sailor Moon series.
Anime music can have a lot of variances in how it sounds.
That's even true with him, but most of his music you can tell comes from him. He has a tendency to incorporate orchestral scores that give his music the sensation of grandeur.
Does he play any instruments as well?
He has a signature guitar that he likes to use for live performances. He also plays the accordion,
