A lot of NFL players do some great things for charity, but you sometimes don't hear much about it.
I know, Drew Brees has a Brees Dream foundation that helps kids with cancer. That's a great cause!
A lot of them like to help with kid's charities. Larry Fitzgerald from the Cardinals has a kid's foundation that helps kids in crisis.
Andy Dalton from the Bengals has a foundation that helps kids in the hospital. He does a lot of fundraisers.
JJ Watt from the Houston Texans has a charity for middle school kids helping them with sports.
It seems like everyone likes to help kids when it comes to charity.
Yeah, that and the military. Vincent Jackson from the Buccaneers has a charity for veterans.
People feel like we owe vets the support because they get injured protecting all of us.
One player even supports police and police dogs. Ben Roethlisberger from the Steelers.
Police often owe their lives to those dogs, it's good to see someone thinking of them.
Yeah, most people do center on kids though. Jay Cutler from the Bears has a foundation that helps kids with diabetes.
I think children with diseases touches people because these kids should have their whole life ahead of them.
Tim Tebow has a foundation that helps build kid's playrooms in hospitals. I'm sure getting to be a kid helps them deal with the stress.
It seems strange that kids these days come down with so many different diseases.
Brandon Marshall from the Bears had borderline personality disorder, and started a foundation to help kids with it.
It's good to see people finally talking about mental illness and doing something about it, instead of hiding it.
I like how all these NFL players use their fame and fortune to turn around and do good deeds that help so many others.
I know, they don't get enough credit. The media always talks about actor's charities, but never much about athlete's charities.
I think it's important to publicize charity work, because a lot of people don't know how to help, and learning more about a foundation can give them little ways they can help.
I know what you mean, if people just realized what great things a fundraiser does, and how someone they admire is involved, they might be more willing to participate.
