What do you think of the Marvel Avengers' movie franchise?
You can't argue with success: all of the movies based on the Avengers have blown away the box office.
But don't you think that really some of them were underwhelming?
Sure. For example, Ironman 3's most interesting character, that we think is the villain, turns out to be nothing but a red herring.
Yes, I was disappointed when I found out he was only an actor.
And they crammed way too many Ironmans into the movie: there are a bunch Tony Stark can remote control, then Stark himself, and his military buddy.
They whole scene where Tony rescues people falling from a plane was just stupid.
You mean the "barrel full of monkies" scene?
Yes. When he said everybody grab a monkey, I thought the franchise had officially jumped the shark.
I agree. And then the whole subplot of Stark's girlfriend getting super powers seemed really forced. It was like they were just trying to throw in something no one expected.
Something no one expected was when suddenly Marvel revealed the Hawkeye is married and has kids, and the Hulk and Black widow are totally into each other.
That wasn't good at all.
There was absolutely nothing in the previous movies to support any of that. Movies that just make up something out of left field to surprise people with no foreshadowing drive me crazy.
It wasn't just that there was no foreshadowing to suggest any of it. Marvel had gone out of its way to lead us into thinking something totally different.
I think everybody thought Natasha either had a thing for Hawkeye, or that they used to be a couple, and that there was a good chance she could wind up with Steve Rogers.
I hated that they wound up just basically throwing away the Hawkeye character.
And they brought in way too many new characters for us to care about them or even know much about them.
I like it when they add depth to the characters that's believable.
I liked it when they made Steve's neighbor not only have a family connection to his old flame Peggy, she was also a Shield agent.
I thought they would try to get those two into a relationship, but now they have too many characters to work on any in-depth relationships.
