What is your favorite Marilyn Monroe movie?
I'd have to say, "Don't bother to Knock".
That's not one I hear too often! What do you like the most about the movie?
I know, usually people say "Seven Year Itch" or "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes"! But, I love her character in the movie, Nell.
What is Nell Like?
Very different from Monroe's other characters! She is a young woman who was just released from the mental hospital after attempting suicide because her husband was lost overseas during World War Two.
Wow, that sounds dramatic, not like the light hearted comedies she was in before. What is the main storyline, without giving away any spoilers!
It is very dramatic, almost a dark noir, sort of like "Niagra" in a way. Well, the main storyline is that her Uncle works as a elevator man and is letting Nell have a gig babysitting one of the guest's childern while they attend some banquet.
Seems interesting already!
Yeah! Of course, as is with these types of movies, Nell doesn't simply do as she's told and watch the girl, but her eyes wonder to a gentlemen across the hotel's next building. I'll leave it there!
Is there any other big  name stars in it?
No one as big a Monroe, that's for sure. But, it does have Anne Bancroft playing a minor role as a hotel singer.
What year was it released?
I think early 1950s.
Pretty early in Monroe's career then?
Yeah! She is very fresh faced in the movie!
Why do you think it's one of her lesser known roles?
Well, like I said, it is very early in her career, and she is not all "sexed" up like she was in other films. The theme is also dark, about suicide, and I think it might scare some people. I also admit, sometimes it borders on the melodramatic, but, I really love it! I love seeing her playing a serious role like that.
I can see some parellels between Nell's character and Monroe's own personal life, can't you.
For sure! I think that's another reason why I like it so much. I can only imagine how much she gleaned from her real life to play the role, and it makes it that much more special of a performance.
