Have you heard that "The Fith Element" movie will be on theaters again?
I never had the chance to watch that movie before...
for me it is a icon movie of the 90`s!! I remember I used to watch it again and again every time I can along with my sister.
Ohh lucky you!, my sister is not a movies fun... and if so, she is more into the kind of romantic movies, which type of movie is the Fifth Element?
It is a Fantasy/Science fiction film, is one of my favorites movie genres... and what about you?
I also like that kind of movie genres along with comedy and romance...
Oh well, let me tell you that this movie have all that on it!! you will watch not only an action movie based on futuristic view of how the world it suppose will be in the future, you will also watch romance between two of the main actors on the movie and comedy from the begin to the end.
It sounds very tempting! and seeing you how enthusiastic that you feel, make me want to watch the movie right now!!, hahaha
That is a great idea indeed!! so, what do you say? we can arrange a movie evening!
I accept!, I finally will have the chance to watch this famous movie of the 90´s!
Ok, so let´s start checking cinema listings to see when is the best time to go and parchase the tickets in advance.
I am checking on my mobile app... I have found something for July 7th at 7:00pm...
That will be a good time.. hold on, there is another time on the same day at 5:45pm.. what do you think?
I prefer to go late... and have some time to read about the movie hahahaha!!
No way!, let´s go to the earlier one, you have to see the movie without any advantage of how the movie is... it is great!, I promise, you will love it!
Ok, let´s got o the earlier function then... Oh, I forgot to ask about the cast, who is acting?
Bruce Willis!! you love Bruce Willis!! and you didn't watch this one?... also Mila Jovovivh, Gary Oldman, Ian Holm and Chris Tucker!! it is a great cast indeed!!! I love them all!!
Oh wow!! I didn't know! sounds like a great movie, I am already feel so enthusiastic
Yeah!! you will love it!! and since I am pretty sure of it, we can watch it anytime again... because I HAVE THE MOVIE at home as well!! hahaha!
Oh my God!! you are really a fan!!, thank you for making me part of your favorite´s movie tradition! hahaha!!
