Do you like old movies?
You mean movies from before I was born?
Exactly, anything from before we were born.
Some of them were okay, especially those old films they show late at night on the local channels.
Right; they showed NOSFERATU on Svengoolie last night at midnight.
That's a great silent horror film! Legend holds that Max Schreck, who played Count Orlok, drank real blood to get into the role.
Spooky! Bram Stoker's widow tried to have all the prints destroyed because F.W. Murnau broke copyright laws by taking advantage of the Dracula storyline for his version.
I'm glad that prints were saved, though! It's about a hundred years old, and still has an eerily creepy ambiance about it.
Werner Herzog made SHADOW OF THE VAMPIRE in the '70s, which also alluded to the blood-lust. It's equally creepy, if not more so because of the later era, and its colorized format.
German expressionism definitely has a dark and dismal tone about it. It must be something in the culture.
Germany certainly does have a dark culture about it. It came to a head back during the Second World War.
It truly did, we watched Holocaust footage in Intro to 20th Century History last semester. They followed it up with Steven Spielberg's SCHINDLER'S LIST, which starred Ralph FIennes as camp commandant Amon Goethe.
I love that movie! He was dressed in uniform and met a female survivor who shook with absolute fright in seeing him.
Yes, it was a very eye-opening cinematic experience that left me feeling mentally drained by the end of the three hours.
The book was good too, it was called SCHINDLER'S ARK instead of LIST, and was written by Thomas Keanally.
I've heard of the book, but I've never read it. I really like historical period pieces like that, and old films that portray events and historical ways of life.
Me too! The 21st century has really tried to step away from history, and even the films are somehow lacking in their substance.
I agree; the stars of today are only shadows of the former glory of Hollywood.
Some films still have a cinematic ambiance. I watch Netflix films all the time, and some of them are pretty good, like HAVENHURST dealing with alcoholism and drug use in an old New York apartment building.
I started watching that last night! It really felt like another take on Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of THE SHINING by Stephen King.
