Did you know that there will be a Pitch Perfect 3?
No, I didn't hear that, that's awesome though!                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I had heard b kaaaaaaaaaaa                                                                                                                               I did actually, I read it online a while back..
I thought so too! It looks like they're going to be going on a USO tour.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      pp
Oh that's really cool. I'm happy they're not trying to do another World Championship Of Acapella or something.
Me too. I think that would be stretching the imagination to breaking.
Is it most of the original cast?
From what I can tell online, yes.
Is Rebel Wilson going to be in it again?
Yeah, she's definitely listed on the cast, along with Anna Kendrick.
I love both of them so much. They are great actresses!
Anna Kendrick seems like she could be anyone's best friend, she's seems so normal.
Do you follow her twitter?
No, I don't.
You should, she posts a lot and she's really funny.
I'll have to follow her the next time I log in.
I heard that she's a pretty active Redditor too.
I've heard that too. I can see the appeal of Reddit more than Twitter.
Really? How so?
Well, unless she's posting pictures of herself or disclosing who she is, she gets to interact with all different types of people completely anonymously.
Oh you're right, I can see why that would appeal to a celebrity.
