Have you seen any good movies recently?
I saw the second Guardians of the Galaxy.
I said 'good' movies.
I didn't think it was that bad!  There were some redeeming parts!
The soundtrack was... fine.  The rest of it was pretty vague.
What do you mean by that?
Well, are we really supposed to believe that Starlord has the same power as Kurt Russell?  If that was the case, then why couldn't he just build his own little planet thing?  If it wasn't the case, then how could he survive outside a planet thing?
I think you're overthinking this, but just to play devil's advocate, his genes were a combination of a human and a... planet thing... or whatever Kurt Russell was.
Biologically, that doesn't really work, right?  How many times can you see biologically related things mate and produce offspring that have all the qualities of both of those things?  Ligers and Tigons are sterile.
That's true, but biologically, you do get traits of both of the parents in the offspring.
But not wholly different traits that are substantially different!  Now that I'm thinking about it, I'm not even sure they could possibly have compatible gametes!
You've really taken this about as far as you can take it.  I want you to consider another possibility for me.
What's that?
How about, instead of analyzing the specifics of the reproductive possibilities within the movie, you try to capture some broad thematic elements that carried across all the storylines.
Like their overuse of the theme of families being formed by the people who are closest to you?
That's a good one!
I think you're really missing the most important part here.  A good movie can incorporate broad thematic elements organically in a story that engages the person watching it.  If the person watching it is constantly being drawn out of the narrative because it's posing ridiculous or unbelievable plot points, the movie is already a failure.
Do you really think that?  That's an incredibly high bar for any movie to get over.  Didn't you enjoy The Lord of The Rings?  That was entirely fantasy and entirely unbelievable.
That's not true!  It was set in a different world that operated on a different set of physical rules than earth did, but the conflicts that the characters engaged in were entirely believable.  The heart of the story rang true.
There's lots of people who'd make the same argument about the second Guardian's of the Galaxy... fortunately for you, I'm not one of them.
