In my opinion, one of the better movies over the last decade is The Wrestler. Have you seen it?
I have not seen it, but I do recall hearing very good things about it. I know it's about professional wrestling, but what is the concept?
Essentially, an aging wrestler still holding on to his glory, suffers a heart attack forcing him into retirement.
That sounds quite dramatic. Any other good details about the film?
The wrestler's name is Randy "The Ram" Robinson played by Mickey Rourke and we get to know him even better after his heart attack.
Despite me not being the biggest fan of wrestling, it sounds like it could be decent.
Oh it is an excellent movie. I know people who are not fans at all of wrestling but really enjoyed it.
I heard Mickey Rourke actually won an Oscar for his performance?
I want to say he did, but I am not 100% sure. I definitely think he earned some type of award for it, though.
What aspects of his personal life does the movie go into?
Well, times are tough for Randy, for he is older, and still wrestling on the Independence side of things. He works at a local grocery store for a pretty rude boss.
What happens to him after his heart attack?
After he suffers a heart attack and is forced into retirement, he tries to better his life, especially his fallen relationship with his daughter.
The Wrestler sounds like very a inner and personal movie. How does it go for him?
I do not want to spoil much of anything, but a lot of his it just a man who has nothing in his life but wrestling. You quickly learn how behind on the times he is once we get to know Randy.
Do you think The Wrestler is based off any one real life professional in particular?
I would have to say, Jake Robert, and I've heard that is the speculation. If you read up on his personal life, they are quite similar.
Does he end up wrestling again?
I will give you that spoiler and say yes, he does. Despite doctors orders, towards the end, he agrees to get back in the ring.
That is all I need to know and I am definitely interested in this one!
