Of all the movies you've seen which one impacted you the most?
Hands down it was The Village by  M. Night Shyamalan. The story line was incredible and the reveal at the ending was mind-blowing!
Yes, I agree. I've watched it at least five times and I still love it!
I wonder how he came up with the idea for that movie. There were so many interesting things going on with that movie.
I know. Like how the core group of adults were all abused in some way by modern (there's a huge twist) society so they created a village to live in the rest of their lives that is like from the 19th century.
Remember towards end when Ivy Walker gets over the wall and a park range drives up to her in a car, you're like, what??
Mind-blowing for sure! What about the creatures they invented to keep the kids from going past the village boundary?
Since you think they're real throughout the whole movie the fear factor alone is about a 10!
Even though it was super scary I loved the way the romantic relationship was developing between Ivy and Lucius. Joaquin Phoenix is so sexy!
For being blind she was one heck of a courageous girl! To go through the woods by herself was amazing.
I know but by then her dad told her the truth that the creatures aren't real.
I know but she had had however many years of growing up thinking they were real to develop a deep fear of those creatures. It's not going to go away in a day!
Bryce Dallas Howard did such a good job with her character. She was nominated for Best Breakthrough Female Performance at the 2005 MTV Movie Awards.
She made you feel so scared for her when she was waiting for Lucius by the door and a creature was near her!!
So what about the character that Adrien Brody played? Noah Percy. He did a good job too.
Yea, now that I think about it I forgot that was him! The Village was filmed almost 14 years ago and I've seen him in several movies since then.
He played a person with developmental disabilities so convincingly. I was on a roller coaster ride with my emotions for his character.
I know. Me too. I felt sorry for him most of the time but then I was mad at him when he stabbed Lucius.
No kidding! But then I felt so bad when he fell in the hole and died when Ivy was going through the forest. She didn't know it was him.
Whew! That was the best movie ever! Let's watch it again!
