Is there a specific movie that you never get tired of watching?
When I was a kid, we used to watch the Three Amigos over and over. We thought it was hilarious.
That was pretty funny, something to watch after a scary movie to help you fall asleep.
I remember watching it after sitting through An American Werewolf in London.  Without something like Three Amigos to watch, I never would have fallen asleep.
After watching A Nightmare on Elm Street, I remember watching The Breakfast Club to help me fall asleep.
I saw The Breakfast Club just recently. It had a group of actors who were part of a group called The Brat Pack.
I remember them, young actors at the time.  Some of them, like Demi Moore hit it big in the entertainment business.
I think I can remember them all; Emilio Estevez, Anthony Michael Hall, Rob Lowe, Andrew McCarthy, Demi Moore, Judd Nelson, Molly Ringwald, and Ally Sheedy.
They made some good movies. The one that sticks out the most to me is St. Elmo's fire.
St. Elmo's fire was directed by Joel Schumacher. He's the guy that directed Flatliners.
I've heard there's another Flatliners coming out in the near future, going to star Nina Dobrev and Ellen Page.
I wonder if it will be as good as the original. Seeing a lot of remakes lately that aren't very good.
Just saw the remake of Red Dawn, definitely prefer the original.
The original Red Dawn, with Patrick Swayze, that's a classic.
My favorite Patrick Swayze movie is Roadhouse. I've heard rumors there is a remake in the works.
Every time I hear about Roadhouse, it makes me think of Sam Elliott. He is starring in a series now called The Ranch. I hope he has a chance to make some more good movies.
My favorite Sam Elliott movie is The Shadow Riders. Did you know that Sam Elliott married his costar in that movie?
Her name is Katharine Ross. Haven't seen her in much recently, she starred opposite Dustin Hoffman in The Graduate.
I first remember seeing her in Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid. I wonder if she kept in touch with her costars in that movie, Paul Newman and Robert Redford.
Paul Newman was one of my favorite actors of all time. I've heard they're going to use his voice in the upcoming Cars 3.
