Do you like scary movies?
No way, they're so stressful when they have a lot of suspense. What about you?
They're my favorite, can't get enough. I love to get scared, like when they make you jump out of your seat.
What's your favorite scary movie?
I think Phantasm would have to be in that number one slot for me. Though I really loved The Exorcist, too.
Phantasm? I don't think I've heard of that one. What's it about?
There's this kid, he's a teenager I think, and he discovers that there's something strange going on at the local cemetery.
Okay, that doesn't sound very original. Kind of cliche, actually.
Well no, the guy who runs the cemetery, he's called the Tall Man, he steals dead bodies and does "something" with them, and he has all of these metallic spheres that fly around and go after people.
Metal spheres? I don't get it.
Well they're about the size of a softball, and they're like the Tall Man's security system. If anyone is nosing around his place, they fly over to the intruder and these knife-like protrusions pop out and impale the person in the forehead.
What? That's just weird, not scary.
No, it really is scary, you have to watch it. So anyway, the kid's parents die, and the Tall Man takes them, and then he goes after the kid's older brother.
So he's not just stealing bodies, he's recruiting new dead people too?
Exactly, and the brother's friend Reggie teams up with the kid to go after the Tall Man. The big shocker is when they wound the Tall Man and he bleeds bright yellow.
Okay, so that's the real thing then. The Tall Man is not human?
No he's not, and then when they get into the guy's house, they find this room where the dead bodies are sent through this magnetic vortex into what looks like another planet or another dimension.
Okay that's just weird again, not scary.
No, no, you have to see it. It really is scary. The bodies are converted into these compact little weird guys, brought back to life, and made into some kind of slaves.
Again, that doesn't sound very scary, but maybe the next time I'm ready to watch a horror movie I will check it out and see. Thanks for the tip.
