Did you see that there is going to be a Film Noir filmfest in September?
Really?  Where, here in town? Where did you hear about that?
Yes, it's the first time they've ever done it.  I saw it online in the website about film fesitivals, then I emailed the contact person for more information.
Really? Wow- what did they say, what movies are they showing?
Well, the big thing is that they are going to have a special showing of Gun Crazy, and Peggy Cummings is going to be the guest speaker.
Gun Crazy? I love that movie- that's one of my favorite film noir movies!
I know!  And, Eddie Mueller who did the commentary on the DVD is going to be there as well.
I can't wait to see that!  What other movies were they showing?
They had a remastered copy of Detour, Ace in the Hole, and let me think what else.
Detour! What, did they clean it up since it's been in public doman for so long.
Yes, it's been digitized, and it's a great copy- That is my favorite movie, Al's life is just the perfect metaphor for everything that can go wrong will.
I have the book about that movie, they only took a week to shoot it, it's such a classic, it's the perfect noir example, I would love to see it in restored condition.
I think they are also showing an Ida Lupino directed movie that has thought to have been lost, but I can't remember the title, I'd have to look it up.
Oh, was that part of the movies that burnt in that warehose fire back in New Jersey?
Probably, they've been trying to find copies of them in dfferent countries, I think this one they found in a vault in Chekloslovakia.
That's my dream, to find a lost movie!
I know! I really wish I had been able to talk to Eddie Mueller at the film fest I went to in Los Angeles last year, I can't wait for this, I'm such a huge fan of his commentaries and books.
Me too. Didnt he do the commentary for Kansas City Confidential?
I think so- I think they may be showing that as well, I'll have to check, the festival is going to go for 3 days and there are about 20 movies being shown.
We've probably seen most of them already, but it would be so great to see them on the big screen.  I can't wait!
