What is the worst a player could perform and still be seen as worthy of the number one overall draft pick?
Eli could be an answer, if were talking NFL performance
What player from the past do you feel is under appreciated?
Herman Moore, Led league in receptions twice in 3 years, 42 TDs in 4-year peak. Made 3 straight 1st team All Pro and nobody ever mentions him as even a top 10 WR of his era
Even though they routinely faced 8 in the box to try and stuff Barry Sanders, Herman Moore and Brett Perriman were legit one of the top 5 duos at WR for a few seasons with fucking Scott Mitchell heaving the ball.
Hey Scott Mitchell was loved by almost every team in the NFC Central, except the Lions.
How dare you disrespect Dave Krieg and Rodney Peete
Man, he snagged Holly Robinson. Ain't no one disrespecting that.
I hated the days of playing against Preist Holmes in two games a year. Then going and playing against LT twice a year. Then of coarse the string of luck with the Chiefs backs after him.
It's nice but I'd rather have that luck with qb or something.
Priest Holmes was the first jersey I ever asked for when I was a kid. The dude pretty much single handed my got me interested in football beyond it being a passing interest.
Besides being an amazing back, wasn't he the guy who would give overly-precise estimates of how much he'd recovered from injuries? "Hey, Priest, how's the leg?" "Oh, about 83 percent. I should be back next week." Was that him or am I getting my wires crossed?
Zach Thomas. He was in the shadow of Brooks/Urlacher/Lewis during his era of linebackers. But man he was less athletic and smaller/slower than all those guys but produced insane numbers. He's criminally underrated.
I very much agree with this. His era really hurt him, but I was a big Zach Thomas fan when he played. Probably an underrated pass coverage linebacker, too.
What is a good ERA for a LB?
I don't really know, but a league where you have to get comparisons to Ray Lewis and Brian Urlacher is definitely not it.
London Fletcher fits this description as well. He was one of the hardest LBs in the game for many years.
Seriously, didn't he even have marginally better stats than Lewis too?
If you don't like him as a person that's fine, but if you think London Fletcher was a better LB than Ray you're high
Yeah for real. Lewis has a legit argument as GOAT MLB and Fletcher just doesn't
