So, I checked out the movie Regression, and I really liked it! It was so dark.
Weren't Emma Watson and Ethan Hawke great in it?
They really were, and I didn't realize David Thewlis was also in there! He was currently in Wonder Woman.
So, that's where I recognized him from! I remember him from other movies too but couldn't put a name to him, but he has such a recognizable face and English accent.
I wasn't sure about the ending to Regression but I remember you telling me about the movie and how Emma Watson's character was pretty interesting.
What did you think about her performance in the movie and how they shifted her from victim to mastermind?
I was kind of blown away by it because the whole movie, Ethan, was playing the seasoned detective investigating this cult, and Emma seem to be just a victim in all this, but when they revealed she was setting things up, just wow.
I know, I felt so sick when that happened. The whole movie I was feeling so much sympathy for Emma, and then when the reveal happened I felt just like Ethan's character.
Did the movie scare you? There were some horrifying moments in there, like the supposed dreams.
That old lady creeped me out, actually all the towns people just seem so off.
I was really unsettled by the rituals and the sacrifices. I had to really gather to process what was going on.
Yeah the sacrifices were really something else. It's a hard movie to watch. Actually it reminds me of the brutal crime stories from the 90's.
What do you mean? I think the movie sets place in the late 80's early 90's actually.
I think that's what they were going for. In the 80's cults were really a big thing so many of the horror and crime stories revolved around that.
I see, that makes a lot of sense. Yeah Regression felt a lot like those older crime and mystery movies. I really did enjoy the movie as well as Ethan and Emma's performances.
It reminded me of a movie called Deliver Us From Evil except the supernatural element wasn't really present in Regression.
That's the Eric Bana and Olivia Munn movie right? I agree, I feel with Regression they really left the supernatural element up to the viewer.
Well I don't think there was an evil presence, I think it was all sort of staged and set up. When Emma confesses about it all, it seem obvious the town was just upside down.
I don't know. I feel like there was something there because why else would Ethan have those haunting nightmares. I think there has to be somewhat of an evil presence or it wouldn't make a lot of sense.
I never thought of it like that. I think I'll have to go back and give Regression a second watch to see for myself.
