In this day and age, I think superhero movies have become rapidly popular. Who is your favorite?
I am a huge Batman fan and I think in terms of film, he is at the very top!
I cannot disagree with that one bit. Batman has had many movies made, from animation to live action. What is your favorite animated Batman movie?
I think Mask of the Phantasm was the best. It was just an amazing story.
I remember that one very well, and I can't disagree one bit. I loved the story and the struggle.
It was an amazing story and we also got to see Batman's origin in the eyes of the animated series world.
That is true. We as fans, go to see him put on the gear for the very first time. Truly an amazing scene.
I think Alfred's reaction, the score, and Batman not saying a single word made that scene probably the best of the movie.
Another good thing about Mask of the Phantasm is The Joker is also a primary role. Do you that was needed?
Yes and no. While I am always up for hearing Mark Hamill's Joker, and didn't mind in this movie, I do not think it was a total must-have.
It felt like towards the end, of the identity of the Phantasm was revealed, and we had Batman chasing Joker, it almost felt like another episode of the series.
I agree. But that did not make it any less enjoyable.
Definitely not. I think Mark Hamill did some amazing voice work in that movie.
It was another very intense fight scene between the two. And Batman saying "Whatever it takes!" was also pretty strong.
What do you think Batman meant by that?
I think he meant he was willing to do whatever it took to stop Joker from inflecting as much pain as he has to Batman and the woman he loved.
That's a good way to look at it. One thing about that movie is do you think it's meant to be a part of the animated series world?
I think it did. Even though the Phantasm was never mentioned again in the series, the story is that Joker was able to escape her at the end.
Okay, that makes sense. That also explains how he is able to still be around for so long in that world.
Absolutely. Either way we look at, when it comes to general Batman movies, mask of the Phantasm is one of the best!
