Have you seen any good comedies lately? I cannot find any new ones.
Actually I have been streaming some older ones. Yesterday I watched Sausage Party. That was hilarious.
Isn't that a cartoon or animated for kids? I like more adult comedy.
No, Sausage Party is NOT for kids at all. It is animated but very sexual and mature in nature.
Really? What is it about? Is it just a bunch of rude joking food character?
Not at all. It is about food that get's bought from the grocery store and they think that they are going to heaven but they are actually getting chopped up, cooked and eaten.
Sounds funny. Is it violent? Do they really show the poor food getting killed? Even a cartoon being hurt makes me sad and I do not like sad movies.
Yeah, they do get chopped and eaten but it is not sad at all. The humor is so adult and sexual that you do not focus on the violence in a sad way.
It sounds good. I will have to watch it. This makes me think of an older comedy- Rat Race. Have you seen that one?
No. Is it an animation too? I loved Sausage Party but I usually don't like animation movies.
No, it is a regular movie. It stars Kathy Bates and Whoopie Goldberg. A group of people are in a race for $1,000,000. They have to drive across the country and whomever gets their first wins- it is so funny.
It sounds like a remake of an older movie. Now that you mention it, I do remember seeing the previews.
Yeah, I think it is a remake. Anyway, these rich guys who sponsor the race are actually betting on who will win and they also have all sorts of ridiculous bets in the meantime as the people are racing for the million.
Really? Like what kind of bets? Can you think of a funny one?
Well the rich guys go in a plane and they make the pilot fly crazy. They bet on who will puke first. It is hysterical.
It sounds funny. It sounds like the type of humor in the older comedy Ruthless People. Have you seen that?
No. I heard of it but have not seen it. Who is in it?
It stars Bette Midler and Danny Devito. Bette Midler and Danny Devito are married and their marriage stinks so when Bette Midler is kidnapped for ransom, Danny Devito does not want to pay ransom. He wants Bette Midler to be killed instead.
I love Bette Midler and Danny Devito.  How old is it? I wonder if I can find it online.
It was made in the 80's but it is still available online. It is worth watching.
