Have you watched The Space Between Us?
The Asa Butterfield and Gary Oldman movie about the kid from Mars?
Yes, Britt Robertson and Carla Cugino are also in it. It was pretty good, I really enjoyed it.
Did Asa play the boy from Mars and was he an alien?
Not exactly, I mean Asa did play the main actor, but he wasn't an alien. His mom played by Janet Montgomery was the lead astronaut on a team that flew out to Mars to do an expedition at the camp sites NASA had set up there.
Oh that sounds interesting, so he was born in space?
Well he was conceived on the ship during the flight out there, and I guess I'll spoil it, his mother dies from child birth. He ends up growing up on Mars with the dreams to visit Earth.
Wow, that's a really good concept. I really liked him in Ender's Game and Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children. I also enjoy all of Gary Oldman's performances. Britt Robertson was a friend in this movie?
Britt Robertson plays his only friend. She's a student on Earth and they communicate via chat daily. He eventually makes his way back to Earth and begins his fish out of water experience.
I really enjoy these types of movies because it gives you a look at how things would be if you were truly not from this world experiencing it for the first time.
I completely agree that's why this movie drew me in initially. Carla Cugino basically is his surrogate mother who raises him on the base station on Mars and she also accompanies him back to Earth.
She's such an underrated actress. She was really terrific in Sin City as well as Sucker Punch.
I like her a lot as an actress too and agree she is really underrated. She was also in San Andreas as the Rock's wife.
That's right! I forgot about that. I love disaster movies. So how does The Space Between Us play out.
I'm not going to spoil it for you because I want you to see it. I think you'd like it a lot. Asa's can't survive Earth for long because his blood's density doesn't balance within the Earth's atmosphere so Gary Oldman and Carla Cugino try to track him down as he's escaped to visit Britt.
Oh I see. That sounds pretty intense. I'm sure there were a lot of good sequences and scenes about his exploration of Earth.
There was, but I really wanted more. They could've really taken some liberties and gone more into depth with a lot of this but they left it, I felt, a little short.
How was the relationship between Britt and Asa. Britt was wonderful in Tomorrowland as I thought that movie was better than most critics.
They had a really good contrasting dynamic of personalities but I think they played off each other really well. I'd definitely recommend this movie for you.
Thanks for that, I'm going to try to see if it's up on Netflix since it's been out for awhile now.
