Did you enjoy Perks of Being a Wallflower more then the Spectacular Now?
That's a tough question. I liked both movies a lot. Those two are probably my favorite current Coming of Age movies in our modern time.
I was having this debate with my cousin and he says Spectacular Now was such a superior movie with Shailene Woodley and Miles Teller.
I think I liked Perks of Being a Wallflower a little bit more. Logan Lerman, Emma Watson, and Ezra Miller had such great chemistry and they all had really good character backgrounds and growth throughout the movie.
I'm in the middle. I can't really decide, both were exceptional movies. I felt with The Spectacular Now, Miles and Shailene's performances were so good, plus it had Brie Larson too.
Brie played Miles ex-girlfriend right?
Yeah she's more of a minor character but her character really sets forth the motivation for Miles character to grow up.
Maybe the feel good moments in Perks of Being a Wallflower were more powerful for me. I remember feeling really good, victorious, free, when they played that song in the bridge scene.
That was such an iconic moment. They played We Can Be Heroes from the Foo Fighters. It was a really uplifting scene.
Yeah it was. I mean they struggled so much to overcome all their adversities. Logan had repressed issues from his past. Emma had relationship issues, Ezra had the coming out of the closet issues.
I liked that dynamic but the Spectacular Now had Miles growing up from a class clown character to a mature adult from his relationship with Shailene.
Shailene does really well in these Coming of Age movies. Have you seen her in White Bird in a Blizzard?
No I haven't. Is that the one with her and Eva Green.
It's really good. It's a mystery. Her mother played by Eva Green disappears, and their relationship prior was bad, so she grows up without a mother but has the nagging thought of what happened to her mother in her mind throughout.
I remember seeing the trailer. You just reminded me that I need to watch it. I want to find out what happens in White Bird in a Blizzard.
You'll really like it. It's a Coming of Age movie too, but a darker one. Shailenes really good in it.
There have been so many good Coming of Age movies recently. Short Term 12 with Brie Larson, I would even say Room is somewhat of that too.
Oh you don't have to tell me twice. I feel Brie is probably the best young actress today.
She did win an Oscar for best actress so you're right. She has the credentials and now she's appearing in everything notable.
I really want to watch Glass Castle when it comes out starring Brie, it looks so good!
