I finally got a chance to watch Oculus!
It was so good wasn't it! I told you those Mike Flanagan directed movies were top notch modern horror!
Yes! I didn't know Karen Gillan and Katee Sackhoff starred in Oculus! What a pleasant surprise.
They were both so good. I thought Katee Sackhoff was terrifying in those flash back scenes. I saw her recently in Riddick too.
Yeah I really enjoyed Riddick, always have loved that underrated franchise. It's literally the small franchise that made Vin Diesel.
I know and look at Vin now, with two complete franchises of his own, the Triple X series and of course the Fast and Furious series.
I need to catch the latest Xander Cage movie as well as The Fate of the Furious.
They were a lot of fun. Action block buster hits that will make you tune out your brain and just enjoy the fun ride.
Oh I know, that's exactly what I expect from those movies.
So in Oculus did you enjoy the ending? I was in the middle on how I felt about the ending for the longest time.
I liked it! I thought it was just terrifying how it went. Brenton Thwaites character suffered the worse fate, knowing he lost his family and was being imprisoned with the mirror still out there!
Can you imagine that, I was so distraught about it that's why I didn't know what to make of how I felt regarding if I liked it or not!
It definitely isn't for everyone, especially those who always expect good to prevail in the end.
I think it hit me even harder when Karen met her fate.
Oh don't remind me, that bugged me more than Brenton's. You know how big of a fan I am of Karen Gillan since Guardians of the Galaxy.
You know, I didn't even recognize her in Guardians of the Galaxy until weeks later. I had no idea she was Nebula!
It was hard to tell since Nebula was blue and all made up, basically bald too. It's not your fault!
I know but I felt kind of embarrassed, being a big Karen fan myself.
She's going to be in the new Jumanji movie starring alongside the Rock.
I remember seeing pictures of that! I watched Jumanji as a kid and can't wait to see my favorite actors in this remake!
