Excuse me my lady i worked very hard at work today so tonight I just want to go home relax and watch a good movie.
So you are checking out now to go home and relax what movie are you going to watch?
I have cable and plenty of DVD movies cable is always showing that favorite of mines the Titanic I also have it on and old VHS tape.
Are you going to watch the Titanic or check out what's on cable or look through all your DVD movies or for your VHS.
Yes i made up my mind I just want to watch the Titanic movie I have seen it so many times already it was that great.
Yeah it was are you going to stop and get a bite to eat or you still have popcorn left in your cabinets. That was also a sad movie.
Since I am on a diet I think i will just pop some popcorn and throw some real butter on it that is fatty enough.
Well okay enjoy the movie maybe I might get off in a few hours go home and do the same thing. I Love the Actor's Leonardo and Kate.
Me too they were my favorites too the movie was based on not only all those people who drowned and died but their love affair as well.
Awesome they had a groovy kind of love the kind everyone wants in their life time. And the boat when it hit that rock what did you first think they were going to be rescued?
Well kind of until the captain mentioned how long it would take for other boats to come and pick them up and there was not enough boats for all the passenger's,
I think I would have just did like some of the men were doing steady having drinks ans trying not to worry so much.
But that did not do any good either I was all in that movie watching them run all around the boat acting hysterical.
Jack saved Roses life again as he did when she went to go jump of the boat.That was not a good thing to do.
No it was not and he saved her life another time at the end He told her to get on that board and to be strong and hold on until someone came to her rescue.
Yes the sad part was he ended up dying along with all the rest of the people who either jumped off the boat or fell in that cold water and died also.
The ocean was filled with about fifteen hundred bodies in ice cold freezing below 0 water.
That is correct and none of them survived only Rose and a few others were lucky to be alive as the story was told when Rose lived to be an old lady.
Poor Jack lost his life but had faith that she would live to have children and be an old woman.
Wow all we have been doing is talking about the movie i have to go now I will see you tomorrow at punch in time. and i am still going to watch that movie again because i liked it so much.
