You need to catch the movie Hush.
Oh I've been meaning to watch that! I heard it's so good. It stars John Gallagher Jr. and Kate Siegel right?
They're both in there, that's right. John Gallagher has been in so many movies of late and Kate Siegel appeared in a handful recently too.
I remember John Gallagher from Short Term 12 with Brie Larson. Fantastic movie!
He was also in 10 Cloverfield Lane as well as The Belko Experiment!
I've watched 10 Cloverfield Lane and that was so good and suspensful. I haven't watched the Belko Experiment yet but I remember you telling me it was a very entertaining watch.
Definitely check the Belko Experiment. It was a lot of action, tension, suspense, and just overall fun. Things get crazy in that movie.
I don't remember what else Kate Siegel was in?
She was in Ouija Origins. It was a brief role but she was the first psychic customer that shows up. The man's wife.
Oh I remember her! So she's the main actress in Hush?
Yes! She plays a deaf and mute woman who lives alone in woods. Basically John Gallagher Jr. is a random stalker or predator that happens on the property and starts to terrorize her.
Oh wow she's deaf and mute, and this is a thriller? This sounds like a really good movie for me.
It's so suspenseful and I thought the whole set up was so original too. How often do we get a movie where the protagonist is both deaf and mute!
I know! I'm curious to know how she manages to survive or at least battle through this scenario.
It's really well done because the suspense is top notch. The quality of the sound is so rich. They want us as the viewers to be empathetic of Kate's situation, as being a victim being hunted.
I can't imagine how I would manage that situation if I had those impairments. That's why this movie sounds so good to me. Who directs this movie?
It's a Mike Flanagan directed movie so you know it's going to be a good thriller, horror depending on how you feel about it!
Mike Flanagan is so talented. He also directed the recent Ouija Origins and I didn't think anybody could do that after the mess that was the original Oujia movie.
He's so good. You need to catch his earlier works if you haven't had a chance. Oculus and Absentia are so terrifying.
I haven't watched them yet but I'll get on that, but I'll start with Hush because that sounds so intriguing to me!
