I watched the Zookeeper's Wife last night and thought it was really well done.
Is that the new Jessica Chastain movie?
Yes Jessica Chastain plays Antonina Zabinski the wife of Dr. Jan Zabinski played by Johan Heldenbergh. They're a couple living in Poland running a local Zoo.
I heard this movie was set in the 1940's during the Hitler and Nazi reign.
That's correct. This movie is a true story based on the real life couple. It's been adapted into a movie, originally a novel. It's a really good historic look into the life and events of this couple who went out of their ways to tried to help the Jewish people during this time.
I love Jessica Chastain. She's so good in everything she's in. My favorite was Zero Dark Thirty. This movie the Zookeeper's Wife sounds like a really good movie to catch.
I really enjoyed it. I found it fascinating. Daniel Bruhl is also in here. He plays one of the military leaders and is the antagonist of the movie.
Daniel Bruhl is also a brilliant actor, Goodbye Lenin and Rush were my favorite performances of his.
He's really good in here too. He's the villain but he plays it in a way that you understand his stance on the situation at the time.
So the movie is called the Zookeeper's Wife? What does the zoo have to do with this?
The title is based on Jessica's character, Anna, having a kindness towards animals and a special bond and connection with them. With the violence beings she loses one of the most precious things to her.
I see, that sounds really intense. I can see why Jessica chose this role.
Exactly the case. She convinces her husband to try to help out as many of the local towns folk who are mostly Jewish, to escape the Nazi regime.
How do they go about this?
I don't want to spoil it all for you, but if you read historic accounts, what they did was they used trucks to enter the town and then smuggled out people and hid them in their home beneath the tunnels of their zoo.
That's awesome! It sounds really interesting as well as intense. I'll have to put it on my list.
I highly recommend it. I think the performances were top notch and the score and cinematography painted a really good feel.
Do you remember who directed it?
Niki Caro directed it. I think she's a fantastic director and making a come up in the industry.
Oh I like her works! She directed that Kevin Costner movie, McFarland, USA and also North Country starring Charlize Theron.
