What was the last Ben Affleck movie you watched?
I think it was either Live By Night or The Accountant.
I haven't seen Live By Night, but The Accountant was my last Ben Affleck movie.
I really enjoyed The Accountant, Ben Affleck's performance as an autistic accountant that was also a hit man was really cool.
Anna Kendrick was in that movie, I wish she had a bigger role. She was basically just damsel in distress.
I know she just disappeared mid way into the movie.
How was Live by Night?
It's interesting, but not too original. It takes place during the prohibition era, set in the '20's. Ben plays a character looking to gain power for his employer by taking over territories.
Who else is in this movie. I'm surprised I haven't heard of it before.
It also stars Elle Fanning and Sienna Miller makes a short appearance.
I love both of those actresses. I think Sienna Miller is really good. She was terrific in Factory Girl. Do they play Ben's love interest in Live By Night?
Well Sienna plays his love interest at the start, the conflict is that she's also the wife or girlfriend of a competing crime boss. Elle plays the daughter of a Police Chief played by Chris Cooper.
Oh, Chris Cooper is a superb actor! Remember him as the neighbor in American Beauty?
Yeah Chris is a terrific actor. In Live By Night he's Elle's father, also a moral and virtuous man. He helps maintain the peace while trying to not cause more violence.
So he works with Ben or does he try to stop Ben's character from seizing power in the city territories?
He really doesn't help or try to get in the way. He basically is telling Ben the areas to operate in, and to not go beyond the borders.
That's interesting. So Elle's his daughter in Live By Night, but does she have any prominence in the movie?
She actually plays a big role later on. I want spoil things, but she has a rapid character change.
Did you enjoy the movie? Would you recommend it?
I think if you enjoy those old 1920's gangster style films and that era of prohibition you'll enjoy it. Overall I thought it was very mediocre movie that could have been executed better, but I was entertained.
