Personal Shopper was such a good movie!
Is that the one with Kristen Stewart?
Yes, that's the movie. It's a smaller indie movie I think but it got raving reviews from critics at the film festivals.
Is it a horror movie? I can't tell from the photos I've seen or the from the title.
Personal Shopper definitely doesn't sound like a horror movie, but it is a horror movie. More like a Ghost story.
That's interesting. Why is it called Personal Shopper?
Well, Kristen Stewart's character in the movie plays a personal shopper for this other actress, I forgot her name, but she's this famous model in the movie.
This sounds odd, but tell me more.
Kristen Stewart is basically this other character's stylist, which means she shops and basically picks out the clothes for this woman to wear to make her look good.
Okay, I get it now, but where is the horror or supernatural element in all of this?
Well I haven't told you, but Kristen Stewart is a medium. She can basically see and feel the presence of ghost. So her character's motive and personal objective is to find closure from her late brother who passed away.
So she's trying to communicate with the dead, is that what you're trying to tell me?
Yeah she's trying to find out if there truly is an afterlife and that her brother is okay there. It's probably one of Kristen Stewart's best performances to date.
If we throw out the Twilight series, I think Kristen Stewart is a very underrated actress in terms of talent. Twilight seems to have given her a bad reputation as a bad actress.
I think it has to do with that and how she carries herself. She's always just very depressing and serious and one note in interviews. It gives that impression.
I enjoyed her in Camp X-Ray, that was such a moving picture. She was fantastic in American Ultra too!
I think she has good range, and if people put their biases aside, they'll see she's actually a really fine actress. I don't know if you've watched Clouds of Sils Maria but she was also really good in there!
I did see that, her and Juliette Binoche had such good chemistry!
Check out Personal Shopper, it's a horror, crime, mystery, all locked in with Kristen Stewart giving a pretty powerful performance. It's very suspenseful and tense and it's actually from the same director as Clouds of Sils Maria.
Olivier Assayas! That's the director. I love his style. It's very cinematic and slowly paced so you get a chance to absorb the scenes and what's happening around the movie. I didn't know he directed Personal Shopper, I'll have to give it a watch.
