Growing up, I was a big comic fan, especially with Batman. My excitement was huge when I heard they were making a movie for the Killing Joke novel.
Same here! Especially when it was announced that Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill were on-board to voice Batman and Joker, respectfully.
For sure! And then they released the first trailer, and something felt off with the animation.
A lot of people felt that way, including myself. We kind of hopped we were simply looking at an un-finished product.
Sadly, we weren't. That was indeed the finished product and the movie was released in Summer 2016.
As much as I wanted to go see the Killing Joke movie in theaters for it's one night only release, I had to digitally download it the next day.
Same here. What were your thoughts after finally getting to see the movie?
Well, let me start off with some positives: I felt Mark Hamill's performance as The Joker was one of his very best.
I agree. Hamill was definitely on-point for this movie, and I look at that as the big saving-grace.
Hamill did all he could, and proved with this movie that he still has it after all of these years. I also felt the last twenty minutes were very good.
That final fight between Batman and Joker was very intense, despite reading the comic and knowing where it was going.
I also felt the infamous scene where Joker hurts Barbara and kidnaps Gordon was also real well-done. The movie had some upsides to it, for sure.
There is no denying that. I felt the movie was okay, but it could and should've been great.
Unfortunately, it did not quite live up to expectations. I have to ask, what are you thoughts on the first thirty minutes?
The Batgirl prologue? I wasn't a fan at all and I felt it was completely unnecessary.
I think most of the fans would agree with that but I actually had one friend who enjoyed it.
I understand the comic is short and they needed to fill time to make it a full-length feature film but that was definitely not what I would have went with.
Same here. It's kind of unfortunate that it feels almost like it's completely pointless and adds nothing to the Killing Joke story.
I don't think it does. You can literally skip the entire thirty minutes and it feels like a whole separate movie.
I actually know someone who used software and cut the first thirty minutes of the movie off!
