Free Fire was such a fun movie to watch!
Is that the latest Brie Larson movie with Armie Hammer and Sharlto Copley?
That's the one, they're all trapped in this warehouse after a guns deal goes wrong.
That sounds intense. Is it an all out action movie?
It's has a lot of humorous comedic tones as you can imagine with the cast, there's a lot of shoot outs.
I like the cast a lot and think I will look for this. Tell me some more about it.
Well the whole movie sets place in the warehouse and aside from the shootouts there's a lot of fun dialogue between the huge cast.
Who else is in this movie?
Cillian Murphy, Jack Reynor, Sam Riley, Noah Taylor and more!
That's a huge cast! I think I've seen all of Cillian Murphy's movies and I really like Jack Reynor as an up and coming young actor. Sam Riley is so underrated and so is Noah Taylor!
I think for Cillian my favorite movies of his are between Sunshine and 28 Days Later. Those were so good.
Those are my favorites too. Have you watched Sing Street? Jack Reynor is really good in there even though he's not the main actor.
I haven't watched Sing Street yet, but I remember Jack from Transformers Age of Extinction as the boyfriend character.
That was such a forgettable movie but yeah he was in that.
Check out Free Fire I think you'll really enjoy it. There's a mystery element too. They're trying to figure out who set them up and who's trying to steal the money involved in the deal.
I like these types of movies. They remind me of Quentin Tarantino movies.
I think this director was really going for the Tarantino vibes. There's a heavy focus on the dialogue and the fun moments. I did have to admit the injured crawling around got a little tedious after awhile and the space they were in felt very enclosed.
I would imagine so, but watching those performances going on kept things exciting. Brie's also in an action movie! I can't wait to see how she does.
She was also in Kong Skull Island but she didn't get much to work with even though I enjoyed that movie.
Oh that's right I forgot about Kong Skull Island. I'll try to look for Free Fire, that sounds like a really fun movie to watch.
