Smashed was a really good movie. It's a smart indie movie but it's really well done.
Who's in that movie?
Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Aaron Paul play a couple who's like any normal couple except they have an alcohol abuse problem. They don't realize it as drinking is just their way of life but it affects so many things in their relationship.
Okay I'm in if Mary Elizabeth Winstead is in it and now you mention Aaron Paul I'm in too. I didn't realize Aaron was getting so many parts now. Must be because of Breaking Bad!
Well he was in a lot of other movies before like The Last House on the Left, and Mission Impossible 3, as well as some other small movies but nobody knew he was at that time!
Unlike Mary Elizabeth Winstead or MEW, everyone knows her right away!
Who couldn't recognize Ramona Flowers! Scott Pilgrim vs The World was basically her mainstream break out role.
I know she was in Final Destination 3 and the Thing, as well as a small part in Quentin Tarantino's Deathproof but I don't think she was a household name at that time.
I'm still not convinced she's completely a household name but movie goers definitely recognize her. She made appearances in the wonderful movie The Spectacular Now, she plays Miles Teller's sister.
That's right! I recently watched Swiss Army Man, and that was a crazy movie, but she was the Paul Dano's main object of attraction. The unattainable girl.
I loved Swiss Army Man! When I saw MEW's photo on Paul's phone background wallpaper I kind of had an idea of where it was going. I wish she had a larger role rather than just as the fantasy girlfriend.
One of my favorite movies last year! So tell me more about Smashed?
Well it's a really good character, or rather couple study, as the movie has great character growth. It's rooted in its realism. Both MEW and Aaron are struggling with the drinking and when one decides to take action and clean up the other feels left out.
I'm sure that would cause the tension in a real relationship too. The one thing you had in common is now gone, so how are you going to make this relationship work?
Exactly, that's the driving plot point and Mary Elizabeth Winstead as well as Aaron Paul do such a convincing job that you almost feel ashamed to be watching because you feel like you're intruding on their private moments.
Well that's the sign of good acting and a good strong screenplay when the movie can actually take you there emotionally.
I was definitely emotionally invested in the movie because it hit so close to home. The pain and loss, as well as the struggles you see on their faces, so touching.
They're both terrific actors and I'm sure this movie gave them the perfect playground to showcase that talent. I really want to see this movie.
You definitely should. It's a slow burn, but the dialogue is so good. There's light hearted moments but things turn dark quickly too.
Thanks for the heads up. Smashed is going on my list of movies to catch.
