The NFL preseason is almost here! Who do you think is the best kicker in the NFL?
I think there are lots of underrated kickers and punters in the NFL, but some of my favorites are Mason Crosby and the punter Johnny Hekker.
Mason Crosby had a really good year last year, he led the Green Bay Packers to a couple of close wins!
Yeah, it's hard to believe a few years back the Packers were considering getting rid of him.
I read that Mike McCarthy designed a performance based contract for him the following year and something about that help set him straight.
Incentive based contracts for kickers are pretty tough to design, since they don't determine how often they are on the field, but they do help the player get focused.
It's too bad Green Bay couldn't have done that with their punter, it seems like a revolving door of punters there the last few years.
I know they had Masthay forever, but then they brought in competition at camp and ended up keeping Schum.
It doesn't seem like they improved much on special teams, but luckily, Crosby didn't mind him as a holder for kicks, so it wasn't that disruptive.
Well the way those NFL kickers and punters practice, I'm not surprised that they eventually got into a good rhythm.
Yeah, I think that's why Johnny Hekker is so productive for the Rams, consistency.
He also has a heck of a leg and can really move the ball down the field, as well as do some crazy directional kicking.
Probably why he was selected to be the punter at the Pro Bowl last year!
He is definately one of those guys in the league that stands out in a good way.
I've seen him in games completely flip the field and get good position for the defense.
I wonder why it didn't lead to many Rams wins last year?
I think that was a product of bad coaching on the part of Fisher.
It wasn't all Fisher's fault, they had not one consistent quarterback on the roster.
Jared Goff is the future of that franchise, but the jury is still out on how the future will shape up.
He just needs to be able to ignore the pressure and execute the game plan, because her can throw.
