Hey - Have you watched the new screener for the remake of IT?
Oh my - yes! It was a crazy screener and I'm so excited for that remake.
If they were going to remake any movie from the early 1990s that I was actually excited about, that would be it.
Yeah - there are a lot that are good, but it seems like the thrill of horror movies allows them to be remade without really impacting the theme as much.
It's almost like if you took a romance or comedy movie out of the 90s and tried to remake it, it would lose a lot of its charm.
That's for sure. I really wish they would make more Steven King movies now anyways
Yes - I don't know why they keep coming up with bad action movies when a great horror movie would be appreciated.
Are there any other new movies you're excited to see?
Dark Knight seems really good, but I'm not sure that I really want to see it.
That's a tough topic that they went with on that one, which seems to not be the case with most movies nowadays.
I am kind of excited to see the Transformers franchise come to an end
Yeah, it seems like they have a new one of those every few months and I didn't like the old ones that much, so it's just annoying to me to have to keep seeing new ones.
The one genre I think is really succeeding is the animation genre.
Yeah - there is really no competing. Back in the day, it would take forever to come up with one movie.
Oh, I know - It's like Disney would release something every 5 to 10 years, but now they can come out with a story that's just as good and memorable nearly every year.
Pixar seemed to really force everyone to step up their game.
They were definitely the cause of most of the transition with digital animation, but you have to realize that their 'focus on the characters and storyline' comes from Disney.
Maybe it's me being biased, but it seems like the new movies are not as memorable as the ones from years past.
They are pushing a lot of garbage out and maybe that's been weeded out of our memories from time, but there doesn't seem to be that many straight up horrible movies from decades past.
I agree completely.
