Have you watched the movie 47 Meters Down?
The current shark movie with Mandy Moore out in theaters?
That's the movie. I watched it last night with my girlfriend.
Did you enjoy it?
I thought it was suspenseful and the shots in the water with the sharks was terrifying but overall I didn't enjoy the movie as much as I enjoyed The Shallows.
The Shallows was also a shark movie but starred Blake Lively right?
Yeah that's correct. It came out last year and I really liked that movie. Blake was stuck on that rock with the shark surrounding her after the attack while she was surfing.
I remember that. I really liked that movie too. So tell me about 47 Meters Down.
Mandy Moore and Claire Holt play sisters who go on a vacation to Mexico. They decide to go scuba diving in a shark cage but the cage falls down and they're stuck at the bottom of the ocean.
That sounds pretty terrifying and suspenseful! Who else is in this movie.
Well, the boat captain and the guy who teaches them how to operate the scuba gear is Matthew Modine.
The great Matthew Modine! From beloved movies in the 80's returns to the screen!
He's mostly a voice after his initial introduction. He communicates with the girls trapped below by giving them instructions on what to do.
So the whole time they're stuck below while sharks are circling them. I'm guessing their battle is time for oxygen running out in the tanks as well as the dangers from the sharks.
That's exactly it. Those moments are pretty good and suspenseful but I had to give a thumbs down at the end. I wasn't happy with it at all.
Did it get too cheesy?
Not exactly, although some of the dialogue was very bad, the cheesiness wasn't there exactly, but the writers, directors tried to outsmart themselves.
What do you mean by that? I hope Mandy Moore survived I really like her.
They have dream sequences and twist endings, so it's one of those things.
Oh, I've never liked it when movies trick me. I might still give it a watch later on though since I like shark movies and Mandy Moore.
