I'm trying to decide if I want to get Netflix or Hulu. What do you think?
What kind of movies do you like to watch?
Well, I like classic gangster movies, and film noir-
Me too, what is you favorite?  I Love Desert Fury with Elizabeth Scott, but I also like really trashy 60's movies like Peyton Place.
Oh wow, me too.  I have this awesome movie that was one of Suzanne Pleshette's first movies called A Rage To Live, have you seen that?
I have! You will die when I tell you what I'm watching now....Valley of the Dolls!!! It's on Amazon. That's the greatest kitsch musical EVER.
Wasn't that the one that Judy Garland was supposed to play Barbara Stanwyck's part, but she was too messed up all the time?
Yes, there's that hysterical scene where she's one screen with this giant swinging mobile trying to sing without it hitting her in the face!
And wasn't that one of Sharon Tate's only movies? She was so beautiful. So sad what happened to her.
Yeah, it really was. You could tell she was really going to be a big star. so, what do you think - are either of those services going to have movies that I like?
I have Hulu, I really like it because it has a lot of the Criterion Collection movies, so you know those are good, although most of them are the foreign ones.
That's OK, good ones like Kurosawa?
Yes.  And from pretty much every country. They do have Samuel Fuller's movies-
Like Shock Corrridor?  And that movie about the woman where at the beginning they pull off her wig and she's bald?
Oh- right- she was in soap operas for years - Constance Fuller I think? What is the name of that movie? Ummm..it's a good one- where she ends up marrying the town ne'er do well...and becomes a nurse!
Oh, yeah, that's a good one. So cheesy and so awesome with all those weird plot twists all the time. And she sells some kind of champagne out of a suitcase. Too much.
I used to have Netflix, but they didn't have as many classic films, mostly new stuff like all those stupid action movies from comic books, I really am so bored with those.
Yeah, and Fast and Furious 67, ha! How many Rocky movies can they make, pretty soon Stallone is going to be in a wheelchair for Rocky 27.
Have you seen him? He looks like he's had WAY too much plastic surgery.
Yeah, he has.  Him, and John Travolta. I saw a picture of him the other day, and I didn't even recognize him- Someone asked me the other day what my favorite Tom Cruise movie was- I just drew a total blank. Risky Business? Maybe?
