I was watching a video online and it made me have to ask you: What is one movie that you like or don't hate, but most people you know do?
The Cable Guy comes to mind. A lot of people I know really hated that movie, but I think it wasn't too bad.
That is the movie with Jim Carrey, right?
Yes. He obviously plays a Cable Guy, who befriends Matthew Broderick's character.
Can you go a little deeper with the plot? It doesn't sound like much of a movie at the moment.
The idea is Jim Carrey's character basically forces Steven (Matthew Broderick) into a friendship, but he comes on way too strong.
I remember hearing that this movie is also considered a dark comedy. Can you shed some light on that?
AS the movie goes on and Steven ends the friendship, the Cable Guy begins to stalk him. The movie does become a bit darker with some of the things that go on.
Is The Cable Guy a sadistic madman or just silly?
He definitely has some problems, but he is a man obsessed with television and film. He almost tries to treat his situation as if it were a movie.
What are some things Jim Carrey does to make this movie a dark comedy?
One scene that comes to mind is where Steven has a nightmare of the Cable Guy breaking into his apartment and attacking him. He essentially looks like a demon with glowing eyes.
That sounds silly, but also in a scary kind of a way. I can now see why this considered a dark comedy.
There is also a scene in a parking garage where the Cable Guy somehow makes every car's alarm go off and then he starts to do the "Friday the 13th" sound effects.
That sounds kind of funny. The movie actually doesn't sound like it would be too bad.
I remember seeing this when I was a kid, and thinking it was scary. I did not understand the dark comedy elements at that time.
I would imagine it is much funnier watching it now that you are older.
Oh, definitely. So many jokes I missed back then that make me chuckle now.
The Cable Guy sounds like a movie I might consider checking out one of these nights. Is it on Netflix?
I believe it is, and if so, I would recommend taking the time to give it a watch.
