I think the movies this year so far are only mediocre. The movies last year were so much better.
I agree. I am hoping that after the summer the quality of the movies will start to improve. I am getting tired of all the action films.
If I have to see one more Marvel superhero or Fast and Furious sequel, I will be annoyed.
The concept that sequels are the most desirable movies is ridiculous. How many times can we see an Alien, Spiderman or Pirates of the Caribbean movie?
I really miss movies like Sing Street or Moonlight.
You are so right.  I want to see a movie that has some substance and intrigues the mind.
When I saw last year Manchester by the Sea I almost cried. The depth of the characters' personalities that were revealed was astounding.
I loved that movie.  The experiences that the characters lived through really gripped you and created a lot of conversation.
I also loved The Arrival. Even if it had a science fiction aspect, it still told a great story.
I could not believe when the pods started to arrive in that movie. Amy Adams was great in the role studying the pods and trying to figure out what the creatures were saying.
This is exactly what I'm talking about. There is depth to the story line. It is not just about blowing things up and shooting people.
I have to say however that I did not love La La Land last year.
Really? Why not? It was up for Best Picture at the Academy Awards?
I liked the musical aspect of it. However, I could not believe they cast as the two main characters Emma Stone and Ryan Gosling.
What was wrong with them? They are great actors.
That is exactly the problem. They are great actors but they can't sing or dance.
Oh. You have a point there. It is a musical where singing and dancing is the primary aspect of the film.
Why could they have not cast people who can sing, dance and act?
Well, I think that makes the point that many of these movies today are made purely for economical reasons.
You have summed up the entire problem with the current selection of movies. It is about how much money can the movie make and not the quality of the art or story.
