Have you see Shane?
if you're a movie fan and if you haven't seen Shane, then you must be shot.
That's nonsense. I couldn't finish watching it because it was so boring. I hate these old movies, they talk funny, colors all weird, acting is awkward.
Shane is different. It has so many implications. It's anti-gun message in time where people carried guns on a rack mounted on the back windshield on your truck.
Yeah, but people really did that?
oh Yes. I grew up with a neighbor who had a gun rack on his windshield. He kept his 12 gauge on it. It went everywhere he went.
Gun nuts are so weird. Anyway, Does Shane die at the end?
It's our constitutional right to keep and bare arms. And keeping it on a rack on your windshield is just one way to keep it. And some people say, yes, Shane dies at the end.
What do you say? Why do they say he dies? And what's the reason people disagree?It can't be that hard to tell. Bam, either you live or die.
Ok. One thing at a time. I say Shane dies because at the end, you can see Shane slumping over with his arm on its side. NO one ride a horse like that.
Well maybe he was just hurt. He was shot.
Maybe. But given the imagery of cemetery, slouching over, and the fact that he was shot, and he doesn't even respond to Joey yelling out "Come back," and the fact the Joey also yells out, "bye" seems to suggest a finality to Shane's existence
Ok, then why do people say Shane doesn't die?
Cuz they're stupid, and are wishful thinkers.
Haha, no seriously. Why?
They're just reading too much into the movie. They say thing like "oh well, he was only shot in the arm, he was able to get up on his horse and ride out." etc.
But you think he dies.
I think he's dead by the time he reaches the cemetery. The visual imagery and everything fits. At least I think that was the ambiguous conclusion Stevens, who directed it, wanted to leave the audience with. At least that's what i think.
Cemetery imagery is pretty convincing. It's an allusion. Like a hint that "Here's a hero moving through the field of the dead as their own."
Well, look at you, all being poetic.
