What's your favorite genre of movie?
I like Shaw Brothers and Golden Harvest martial arts movies from the 1970's and 1980's.
Those silly chop socky movies? How can you stand them?
I hate when people say that. They're actually rich with traditional martial arts, fighting styles that were invented hundreds of years ago. They are often choreographed by real students of martial arts.
Okay, but how can you enjoy the traditions while listening to those silly voice dubs?
Those dubs are actually done by a British company called Omni Productions, who did many of the voice overs for martial arts movies, as well as Godzilla films and even some anime. That's why you hear the same voices over and over in those movies.
I didn't know all that. That all gives me a new appreciation for the films. Up until now, I thought it was all just pure shlock.
I'm not saying some of it isn't ridiculous, but many of these are fine films, most of which are rich in Chinese history and tradition.
Give me an example of a movie that is rich in history.
For starters, the movie Legendary Weapons of China, which was choreographed and directed by a famed martial artist/direction named Lau Kar Leung who studied under the descendents of real rebels of the Ch'ing Dynasty.
I don't really know what you're talking about. Can you explain?
When the Ming Dynasty was overthrown, the Ch'ing Dynasty took over and devastated China. Many secret rebellion societies formed in temples that taught martial arts as self-defense. The Ch'ings sought and killed most of them, but the survivors passed on the tradition of martial arts.
Okay, but what does this have to do with the movies?
One of the ways they kept the tradition of Martial Arts was through story telling, first in Chinese Opera, and later in film. Otherwise the Ch'ings would have stamped it out completely.
And so the movie Legendary Weapons of China is about this?
The movie details all of the ancient weapons of Chinese martial arts and shows how to use them. It is a beautiful film with deep cultural meaning. It is also a hell of a fun movie to watch.
I'll have to check it out and learn some Chinese history.
You do that, and when you're ready to learn more about martial arts movies, I can recommend some more great ones for you.
This is great, I'm going to see if they have Legendary Weapons of China on Netflix.
Me too, I suddenly feel like watching it again!
