So what should I watch with Allisa?
Who's Allisa?
It's the girl i told you about.
You told me about... many girls...
Um, no. I told you about Allisa who's a biochemistry student, and then Heather who's the soccer player, and then Kristen who wants to be a teacher, and...
Ok. Stop. So Biochem girl. Ok. What do YOU want to watch?
I don't know. I'm conflicted. It seems like she would feel uncomfortable with a romantic comedy. It's too early.
It's never too early for a romantic comedy. It's about whether or not she's attracted to you that determines whether or not a romantic comedy is appropriate.
Do you think she's attracted to me?
How the hell should I know? How did she act when you asked her out? Did she try to flirt with you? Did she check out your junk? Did she give you any idea that she's into you?
I have no idea. I know she's into me otherwise she wouldn't have said yes. Right? I just need to pick the right movie. Should scifi work on a first date?
I'll be honest with you. No movies ever work on the first date.
What?!?! why not?!?!
Well, let's see. Let us examine what a movie viewing entails. You go and wait at the booth with large clear window with show times listed, and then you stand there like an idiot looking over the numbers trying to think which is a good time. That makes you look really smart--ok, no. Then you pay for the ticket, and then you have to do... what?
Wait.
That's right wait, and you have to find something to fill that void. What is available around the theater? Do you have it planned out?
Planning isn't my thing. I think better if I don't plan.
And even if you do find something to do while you wait, then you have to do what once the show time is up? Have to wait in the line again, and get into the theater, buy stuff at the concession stands...
Which is a ripoff, by the way.
Yes, true, and then you go into the theater, and sit next to each other yet, not looking at each other, but looking at a screen, shoveling food into your mouths. Then you spend a 90 minutes doing that, and you come out. You could've spent that 90 minutes in a meaningful conversation... No wait. you know what? Movie is fine for a first date. Go for it.
