Have you seen the new Guardians Of Galaxy?
Not yet, have you?
Not yet, either, but I am really looking forward. Everyone told me that it's a good one.
Oh really? I actually heard some not good reviews from people I know.
Oh, I don't know, I have seen the first part and hope the second will be the good as the first one, but you never know.
Right, sometimes second part not so good as the first one. But I also did like the first one.
Yeah. Do you remember that funny tree, what was his name? That was my favorite character.
Oh, right, he was so cute. But I have seen it also long time ago, don't remember any names.
I can google it, let's by the way wee who is gonna be in the second part. Are they the same characters?
It's ok, let's better check when it's on the theaters and will go together as we both like these type of movies?
Oh, that's a good idea, let's go to this cinema we have been last time?
yeah, they have good building there and the are always many movies on. When would you like to go, this weekend?
Yeah, Saturday evening could be great, how about you?
That's fine, I am looking now, they have one at 6 pm and one at 8, which would you prefer?
6 could be better for me, would like to go talk a bit after movie as well. Which other good movies have you seen recently? After this conversation I feel like to watch something right now.
Oh, I don't know, I am watching Tudors all this week and haven't pay attention much what's new on, I am more on the shows now.
Oh, yeah, Tudors are good one. I am on other side, like to watch all new movies, as much as I possible could. Always want some new fresh story.
I understand. Have you seen the Lion? It's not so new, just pops up in my head, the movie I have seen recently and liked a lot. Very interesting story, but you better watch yourself.
Thank you, I have heard about it, but haven't seen yet. I will go check if it's on Netflix and watch if you don't mind.
No problem, I have to go out soon anyway. So, wee you on Saturday. Hope it will be great evening.
