Hey, did you see the new Guardians of the Galaxy yet?
Yeah, I did! It was better than I expected from a sequel.
That's good to hear! Usually sequels let me down after making me wait for them to be released.
I totally get what you're saying, but this one was definitely good. It might even be funnier than the first one.
I love that! I always thought one of the best aspects of the first Guardians movie was how much I was laughing when I saw it.
Oh, if you thought that one was funny, you HAVE to see Deadpool.
Is that the one with Ryan Reynolds? I remember seeing trailers for it.
Yeah, Ryan Reynolds as Deadpool, and it's literally the most hilarious superhero movie to come out yet, in my opinion.
I'll definitely have to add that to my list of movies to check out.
While you're at it, I would add Neighbors 2. I'm not sure if you saw the first one, but it's another example of a killer sequel, and so hilarious.
I'm gonna have to check that one out, I love Seth Rogen! Did you see Sausage Party, where he voiced the main character?
I haven't seen it yet, I was planning to rent and watch it next time we stay in for the night.
It's absolutely hilarious. Comedies are some of my favorite movies, but I've been getting into dramas more and more lately.
Really? I could see that, they are definitely making some really intense films lately, it's easy to see why you would be drawn to interesting story lines!
Yeah, I love those thought-provoking movies. If you're looking for a good drama, I suggest Moonlight.
I've definitely heard of Moonlight, didn't they just win a ton of Oscars or something?
Yeah, they won three and I'm pretty sure they were nominated for even more. It was absolutely amazing, I can't recommend it enough.
I definitely want to watch it. I don't think the kids would be able to sit through it or appreciate it so that'll have to be a long term plan.
I definitely recommend it. But if you're looking for something more family friendly, I heard Moana was really good!
I took the kids to go see it, they loved it! The Rock voices one of the main characters, and he was a hoot to listen to!
