Are you into movies?
Yeah, I like watching movies a lot. I'm somewhat of a movie buff, but how about you?
I enjoy movies, but I'm don't obsess over them. I generally go to the theater when someone else wants to go.
Yeah, I'm more proactive about keeping up with the latest movies. I've seen like 15 in the theater so far this year.
Oh wow, that's much more often than i typically go to the theaters. Do you have a favorite so far this year?
It might be because it was the most recent movie I saw and it's fresh in my mind, but I really liked Guardians of the Galaxy 2.
I haven't seen it. I didn't see the first one, so I'd like to watch them in order, but I heard they were good.
Yeah, they're both definitely good. I think I liked the first one a little better though.
Oh yeah? Any particular reason.
Nothing incredibly significant, but I think the overall story telling was better in the first one. Don't get me wrong though, they're both great movies.
That's cool. Do you like comic book movies in general?
Yeah, they're really entertaining. They typically have really good action and intriguing stories.
Yeah, I like comic book movies a lot too. It's cool to see some of my favorite comic characters in movies.
And they've definitely been on point with them in the last 15 years or so. I feel like there has been a lot more good comic book movies than bad ones, at least in recent years.
Yeah, plus they've branched out a lot. It's not all about the most famous comic book franchises and characters.
That's true. To be honest, I'd never even heard of Guardians of the Galaxy before the first movie even came out.
To be honest, I hadn't either. I know quite a few superheroes, but I'm not a genius or encyclopedia about them, so there's inevitably some characters I don't recognize.
That's true, especially since there are so many comic book movies coming out these days. It's hard to be familiar with every single character from every franchise.
Yeah, some even belong to multiple franchises. Batman has been in a lot of his own movies, he's been in a movie with superman, and I think there's about to be a Justice League movie which will most definitely include Batman.
Yeah, I heard about that too. I can't wait.
