I'm just talking about violence in movies. in particualr in anime. So, yes, Quick. Flash. Gore. Language, and sure, sexual violence too. All of the above, yes. So which has most of it.
Well as far as sexual violence go, there are no shortage of disturbing stuff out there and really not my favorite.
Me neither. What about just gory stuff?
As far as the gratifying gory stuff goes, I think genocyber probably is the top. Extreme graphic stuff. Tearing a face off, shot in the head, all drawn to perfection. They even show a child being killed, which breaks what has always been an unwritten rule in Anime.
That sounds gnarly dude.
Yeah, and they do have a huge cult following just for that reason.
I saw that princess anime. She's like this wild princess trying to save her country or something. Princess hinomoke or soemthing
Princess Mononoke.
Mononoke? Where the hell did I get hinomoke?
From your brain.
Anyway I think we make far better animations than Japanese do. I wonder how come Japanese anime culture got so popular. We have as good a animation, but we don't really have a culture built around it.
Well we actually DO have a culture, well a borrowed culture really.
Like what?
Cos-play, which grew out of science fiction convetion which was an American thing that started in the 30s, but then it went to Japan and became Japanese cultural thing, and then it came back to the US, it became whole another thing.
That seems a bit cimplicated just to explain a bunch of losers dressing up as their heroes from a movie.
Those fandom conventions generate revenues of upwards of 600 million a year, and that's just from ticket sales. We're talking about billions in terms of economic effects surrounding these events
Well, some people have too much money, oh, and time.
Top tier Cosplayer make upwards of 100K a year.
See, that's a sign the world isn't a fair place. If you can pull a 100K dressing up as a hero from a movie, something is wrong with the order of the world.
No one said the world is fair.
