The very first  film that used the stop motion animation was?
That can't be the real question, let me see the card.
no that's what it says. I'm not giving you my card.
I just want to see it and make sure... Ok fine. So the first stop motion animation was back in 1897. Humpty Dumpty Circus. But what is the most commercially successful stop motion animation?
How should I know? I'm not the film historian.
it was a rather ercent film given the history of Stop motion animation. It's Chicken Run from 2000. It grossed over 224 million world wide.
That's even more than Tarantino's the Hateful Eight.
Oh. Gee look. You can compare numbers.
HarHar. how does that compare to the most successful film, period?
You mean "commercially successful," well, the film that rakes more money that any other films from the box office, not including dvd sales etc, is, drum roll please,  Avatar at $2.7 billion.
No way,. Avatar? I wouldn't have thought that. That movie sucked.
You also think French films and Japanese animes suck.
True, and I do have many well informed opinions on the matter, but Avatar? The entire thing was computer generated. At what point does a film stop being a film involving actors, and become just a computer generated images?
Avatar is nowhere near being just a computer generated film. Besides, computer animation is an art form on its own merit.
That's laughable. No way computer animation is an art form. The computer is doing all the animating, drawing etc
But that's so not true. It takes incredible amont of skill as an artist to produce figures using computers, and to animate them takes a lot of skills often a lot of programming.
You said an art form. Programming is not an art.
Programming is an art form if you make it out to be...
That's such a nonsense. it's a spin-off of the typical "art is everywhere" nonsense. Honestly, woudl you pay for an art made and produced by a computer?
I most certainly would. and there already are many computer artists, or artists who use the computer not just for making the content of art, but computer as a part of the art itself.
