You know how I love X-Men movies, I just caught, Logan, last night and loved it.
I saw that opening night, to be honest, I was a little bored by it.
What? That's ridiculous, it was such a fantastic movie!
I thought it was really well shot and production was terrific, but the pace was just something that really had me drifting off in attention.
I love that slow build up and was glad it wasn't just another generic Superhero movie. The bleak atmosphere and world created was so different then what we were getting before.
Maybe that's it, I was expecting more powers to be used, and more abilities to be shown. The story of the child was okay, it didn't engage me.
That little girl was fantastic! Probably my favorite character in that movie, she was so good in performance being the gritty young Wolverine.
I'll agree with that, she showed so much fire in her scenes, and the action scenes definitely gripped me and had me locked in.
I couldn't believe they pushed it for the R-rating, we finally got the Wolverine we've always wanted to see in Logan!
I definitely was impressed they let him maul the bad guys the way he did, the way he just sliced and diced his way in battle. Something so sorely lacking in these other movies.
They even had the little girl mauling everyone! I think that was like a big shocker to me, especially that one scene.
Oh, you mean THAT scene.
Yes! That scene where she slowly walks out of the warehouse, carrying the one tough soldiers head and just rolls it, that had me floored!
I cringed a little bit when that happened, but it was a pretty cool scene.
We haven't even mentioned Professor X!
You're right, he was so good in this movie, with his aging self. It was fun to see him play a more out of sort Professor X than the mild mannered, always tempered, Charles we've seen prior.
He definitely killed it in his performance, he gave the character heart and there was humor too in those scenes when he refused to take the pills. I laughed.
It was sad and shocking to see how things ended for him, actually thinking more about it, after talking to you about this flick, I think I might have to watch it again down the road.
I think you should! It is certainly my current favorite movie, Logan, did not disappoint!
All right, I will! Maybe I'll be more awake this time to fully appreciate the whole movie.
