What type of movies did you see in the theaters when you were younger?  Movies had good memories for me.
Wow, my first movie was Lady and the Tramp as a kid.  My mom took me to see it.
My first one was Lilies of the field.  I liked how the nuns got Sydney Poitier to keep helping them build their new church on faith.
I remember seeing 2001 A Space Odyssey  with another kid my age.  It was mostly about imagery and allusions which I could not understand.  The kid with me understood it but he was a real brain.
I liked going to see the westerns with John Wayne in them.  I liked Rooster Cogburn the best of them all.
Yeah the Duke was pretty cool.  I saw Butch Cassidy and the Sundance kid with my sister.  That was a neat western and pretty funny at times.
The Battle of the Bulge was a good war movie, I remember seeing that with my dad in the theater.
Yeah that was pretty good.  John Wayne was in The longest day, that was the best one, it was about D Day.
As I got older I went to a few movies at the drive in movie.  I remember seeing Two Lane Blacktop there. All the gear heads were there and revving up their engines.  Ha ha.
I remember going on a few dates at the movies.  The first one was with a girl and we saw I think Charlottes Web.  It was pretty nice
Yeah it was always fun to go to the movies.  I saw Patton with my sister too.  That was a good memory.
I went to a movie with a beautiful Afican American girl and had a nice time.  I think we saw a romantic comedy but cannot remember the name of the movie for the life of me.  I guess i liked her more then she liked me.
I had a date with a girl and we saw the first Rocky movie.  It was a good movie but the date wasn't so hot.
I didn't like to go to the movies on dates. It was more fun to go with a group of friends.  We could get into mischief too easily.  We were thrown out of The Rocky Horror Picture Show for making too much noise.
I went as a third wheel to a few movies with my buddy.  We saw Every Which Way But Loose, it was pretty comical.
I saw the Dirty Harry movies, most of them, Clint Eastwood was cool to watch with his tough guy acting.
I liked the Charles Bronson Death Wish series.  Saw most of them in the theater.
The last time my mom went to the movies was to see ET.  I was glad I took her and we had a nice time.  A nice clean movie.
I remember seeing Titanic in the theater.  It felt like you were going down with the ship with all those passengers.
Must have been neat.  I was on a cruise ship and requested that movie but the captain did not want to show it.  Ha ha.
