What do you think of the DC Cinematic Universe?
It's aggravating. I wish the movies were either better or worse.
What do you mean? Why would you want them to be worse?
Well as it is they're just a notch below mediocre, so I can't really work up and justified rage about them. They're kind of disappointing, but not so bad that it's fun to make fun of them.
Yeah, I see what you mean. I don't know why they keep trying to do the grim dark stuff.
I think it's because most Hollywood people think superheroes are stupid and childish, but if they can make a dark movie they can at least pretend they're making a deep movie.
These movies are lovely dark and deep? Is this your Robert Frost theory of movies?
Well, I think there's a psychological association there. If they make everything dark and broody they can say "see, this isn't a kids movie, that would be bright and cheerful".
But kids movies aren't always bright and cheerful. Don't like half of Disney movies involve one or more dead parents?
Hey, I said there was psychology involved, not intelligence.
OK, good point. But the Marvel movies tend to be more bright and fun. Why aren't they just copying that?
Because everyone went crazy for the Nolan Batman movies, and they're trying to catch that lightning in a bottle again.
But that only works because he's Batman, you can't just do every superhero movie like that.
Yeah, you know that, but that's because you understand superheroes. The Hollywood people don't.
Yeah, OK. But still, hasn't everyone been telling them that the movies are too dark and offputting?
Yeah, but it's the sunk cost fallacy, they've already spent millions on their current stupid vision, they'll maybe make minor tweaks, but I think it's a hard battleship to turn.
From the trailer the Wonder Woman movie looked good, though.
Yeah, that circles back to what I meant about hoping they get better, even the bad ones have the seeds of ideas that could work. A World War I period piece with Wonder Woman could be great.
So you're getting hyped?
Well, I'm trying not to, because even though it could be great, if we look at the track record the odds that it will be are low. And I don't want to get disappointed again.
