Have you watched the new Power Rangers movie?
Yes, I watched it last night.
What did you think about the movie? I'm thinking about watching it this weekend.
I really enjoyed it. Growing up as a Power Rangers fan, I thought they did a really good job with this movie.
So would you say they represented the Power Rangers well with this new cast and how they made the movie?
I would say so. I really enjoyed the new young cast they chose for the modern day Power Rangers. They mixed up some of the characteristics but it still held onto the same essence of what we know about the Power Rangers.
What do you mean they mixed up some of the characteristics?
Well remember the original power rangers had Trini and Kimberly as the Yellow and Pink Rangers. Trini was Asian. In the movie Trini is not Asian and so the Asian represented Ranger was the black ranger this time and he was male.
Oh that's interesting. So they made the black ranger Asian. That's funny, but definitely goes against some stereotypical expectations.
Yes definitely. The black character played the Blue Ranger. It was a very entertaining movie. The only off putting element I thought was Elizabeth Banks portrayal of Rita.
What was wrong with Elizabeth Banks version of Rita?
To be honest, she did a good job of playing the original Rita, but the tone of the movie was a little more serious. It reminded me of the Breakfast Club in some ways.
A group of delinquents serving detention learn about each other and become friends?
That's exactly it, and it's funny you mention detention, because that's who they all basically meet and come together.
What did you think of the action sequences? Was there a lot of fighting and I can't wait to see how the Zords play into this as well as Megazord!
Honestly the movie was very centralized around the characters. I would say about 70% of the movie was about the kids backgrounds and then when they found the stones, how they dealt with their new powers.
So there wasn't much action more a coming of age story?
No there was plenty of action in the final 30 minutes or so. The meat of the story was heavily centered on personal development and exploring the new powers as well as friendship.
it sounds like they did a good job in making the movie a bit more thoughtful and not just a superficial summer blockbuster action flick.
Yes, I actually really enjoyed that aspect of it. I really grew to like the characters and so when the action started I really rooted and pulled for them. You'll enjoy the movie. They did it right!
