I was really looking forward to watching Ghost in the Shell but the reviews have me questioning if I should watch it in theaters or wait for the home releases.
I caught that movie opening night and I really enjoyed it despite what the critics were saying. I feel it got such a bad social justice knock from the whole stereotyping they were crying about.
That's right they were all rioting about how Scarlett Johansson's character should've been played by an Asian actress.
Yeah, it's seriously not a big deal since the original character of the Major is suppose to be somewhat ambiguous in ethnicity.
I didn't pay too much attention to all that noise just heard the news. I'm really more interested in the movie since I loved the 1995 Animation as well as the manga book on it.
I read the manga and also saw the original. I thought the movie did a very accurate and good job in presenting the materials. Of course it left some details out, but it's to be expected because of time constrains.
Did you feel they covered the Major well? Her back story as well as some of the key points that made her character so interesting in the manga?
They certainly did. I think they did an even better job of making her plight sympathetic to the viewer. They added a bit more to her background which helped you to understand how she's feeling and what she's thinking.
That sounds really interesting. I like it when they give us some depth to the characters. I was thinking this was going to be just an action flick with not much else worth of substance.
No, it certainly has action, but it also gives you some good depth to the characters. I thought Scarlett did a fantastic job playing the Major.
She certainly looks good in the outfit and I think she looks a lot like the drawn manga character of the Major.
The CGI city looks really good. You'll be impressed. I thought as I watched it, this is how the Ghost in the Shell universe would look.
I remember watching the trailers and thinking it looked really polished and lifelike. I can't wait to see it. How was the villain?
I thought the villain was okay. I'm not going to spoil it for you, but you're not going to get the puppet master from the original, but what they do here is very interesting.
You've got me intrigued. I'm wondering who this new villain is going to be?
Well the way they have it, there's some twist and turns that get revealed, that's why its tough to talk about it without spoilers.
I see. You made it sound compelling and to be honest, I trust your judgment in movies better than most critics.
I agree with you. I think there are heavy biases and agenda driven motives for some of these current critics.
I like to watch movies I'm interested in and judge for myself. I think I'll go look for Ghost in the Shell this weekend.
You won't be disappointed. Especially since you know about the original story and you're a fan of it. Good luck finding it.
