I finally watched 10 Cloverfield Lane.
The sequel to Cloverfield with Mary Elizabeth Winstead and John Goodman?
That's the one. I love Mary Elizabeth Winstead and when I saw that she was starring in this I knew I had to catch it. It was so good!
I haven't seen it yet, but I heard it has a lot of thriller elements and not so much monster elements.
That's the beauty of this movie. It plays on the monster metaphor, like who's the real monster?
What do you mean by that?
Well the movie has Mary Elizabeth Winstead basically locked in down in a bomb shelter in John Goodman's basement.
Wow I didn't realize John Goodman was the bad guy! He's such a good actor I can see him playing this role well.
Yeah it's quite interesting because you think he's the bad guy, but the whole mystery is he believes the world has just ended up at ground level that's why he's hiding in the shelter.
From the monster attacks right?
That's right he thinks something bad is happening. Oh you have to remember this is a prequel of sorts to Cloverfield so the events happening in this movie are right before the original Cloverfield movie.
I didn't know that!
It's really cool how they set it up. The dynamic is John Goodman and Mary Elizabeth Winstead as strangers locked up in the basement and there's a third guy in there too.
Off topic but every since watching Scott Pilgrim vs. The World, Mary Elizabeth Winstead has been one of my favorite actresses.
I agree she's definitely always on my must watch list. I'd recommend watching Alex of Venice, she's fantastic in that movie too.
I'll remember that one too. So tell me a little more about 10 Cloverfield, did you enjoy it?
I loved it! I'm going to watch it again. The suspense element and the mystery of guessing how it would turn out had me on the edge of my seat the whole way.
Don't spoil it for me but does it at least end more with a happy ending then Cloverfield?
I'm not going to spoil it but I'll say one thing, the last act is definitely a surprise! You'll enjoy it.
Okay, I'll add that to my watch list when I come across it too. Maybe I can run a Mary Elizabeth Winstead marathon in an upcoming weekend!
