I watched a really interesting, albeit, disgusting movie the other night.
This sounds good. I have the movie in mind if it's a recent one you're going to mention.
Raw. Have you seen it?
Yes! That's exactly the one I thought you were going to mention. That film made me nauseous but I couldn't turn away.
Tell me about it! I watched reviews where people mentioned it was really graphic with the gore and what not but there wasn't a lot. It was more of the situations that had you cringing.
The worse part for me was when the main girl was eating her sisters severed finger. I think that took the cup. I mean it's her sister's finger!
That scene was set up so well. I mean the whole seen was really unsettling. The way the tension was even before that finger eating made you sit uneasy.
Yeah that whole first time waxing thing looked so painful. I did not expect the sister to accidentally severe her finger with those scissors.
She passed out and the main girl at first looked like she was trying to find a bag to keep the finger on ice for medical purposes later, but nope. I guess she got hungry.
That's funny. I actually thought their dog was going to eat the finger. I've seen that in some other horror movies, but here they showed the dog, but went away from that cliche trope.
I did appreciate the director for really making situations uncomfortable and unsettling. For a movie that was honestly not that gory to have such a response and reaction is amazing.
A slow descent into cannibalism. Did you catch any of the metaphors or just out there societal messages the director seem like she was putting out there?
You mean the whole irony of the veterinary school and how the main characters family was vegan but she turned into a cannibal upon her first taste of flesh?
Yeah, it was funny, kind of in a dark comedy way. I kind of saw the ending coming but it was still a shock that left me speechless.
I forgot to mention the rash scene and the intense scratching. That was so stomach turning for me too.
That scene was pretty bad too. I felt so uneasy because the sounds of scratching were in your ear. It's one of those things where everyone knows how that feels.
I think the director did a great job of presenting every fears as a point of basis for the horror instead of the standard jump scares or just excessive gore.
I agree I thought the movie was really interesting, entertaining, and overall a really well done piece even though it won't be for everyone.
This is certainly a movie you won't want to watch with someone with a weak stomach.
Also this is a movie you don't want to eat while eating!
