I just watched the movie Rush this past weekend.
Is that the Ron Howard movie about racing legends James Hunt and Niki Lauda?
That's the one. I loved it. It was a very entertaining movie!
I caught that movie awhile back. I thought they did an excellent job with the casting likeness of the actors from the real life racers.
I looked that up and you're right, the cast from Chris Hemsworth, Daniel Bruhl, Oliva Wilde, and Alexandra Maria Lara as their real life counterparts was spot on.
Yeah that was so perfect. I really enjoyed the musical score from Hans Zimmer too. It was such a classic Hans score.
That was such an epic score! It got me all revved up especially during that last race in Tokyo. A truly moving score from Hans.
I also really was impressed with the recreation of the Niki Lauda crash from the Nurburgring race. If you watch the original crash it's almost identical.
I looked that up to and it was also spot on. That scene in the movie where Niki was getting his lungs drained was so hard to watch though.
I definitely cringed several times. They were so detailed and prolonged that so much so you could feel the pain being experienced.
I was really touched when he proceeded to try to get right back out there to race. That scene when he was painfully trying on his helmet despite his burn wounds made me want to pull for him to come out ahead.
His wife though, was so supportive! Didn't you think she was such a sympathetic character?
I loved his wife! She was not only beautiful but was pretty much what you would want in an ideal wife if you were in his shoes.
It's amazing how she had so few speaking lines but just her demeanor and the emotions from her eyes in all the pivotal moments just made you feel what she was feeling. That's good acting.
I think that's what made this movie fantastic. There wasn't so much in your face exposition and they really let the actors sink into their roles.
I agree, also they paced the movie so well. The balance of presenting both sides, James side as well as Niki's, I thought was perfect.
The whole movie I was looking for someone to root for but I kept switching back and forth. They both had their flaws but neither were considered traditionally good or bad.
I think that's one of the best aspects of the movie. We're so used to cheering on the good guy and rooting against the bad guy. This movie gives us both sides and it's more of an expressive retelling of a segment in racing history.
It was definitely entertaining. One of my favorite all time movies now. I'll be watching this again as I did buy the bluray.
I'll have to borrow that bluray from you to catch it again. Just talking about it now, reminded me of how awesome of a movie it was.
