I just watched Fist Fight. It was pretty funny!
That's the one with Ice Cube and Charlie Day as competing teachers right?
That's the one. It was hilarious.
I saw it when it came out and I agree it was pretty funny. Who were you rooting for?
I started off rooting for Charlie because he's always made me laugh, but as the movie went on I have to admit I loved Ice Cube's character.
They were great but the kids in the school were pretty good too.
You mean the computer tech kid who was black mailing Charlie?
That's the one. I laughed when he denied he was messing around with the DVD player in Ice Cube's class and then later forcing Charlie to buy him Apple products.
I think the whole battle and conflict between them was pretty good. They had Charlie as the peaceful more easy going by the rules teacher but as the movie went along he had that change.
I think the same thing can be said about Ice Cube. His character I never felt was the bad guy we were introduced to as the beginning, it was like he had a bigger mission.
Did you catch Christina Hendricks in there? Her character was so odd!
I know! She was just this creepy teacher that just appeared randomly. I don't know I did think it was funny every time she showed up hoping for some violent fight to break out.
I really liked the fight they had towards the end. The big build up and that pay off was worth it.
They did a good job with that. The whole time Charlie had you believing he wouldn't stand a chance but he held his own pretty well.
The movie did a good job in building up Charlies character arc, so basically all that he went through up to the time of the fight, he learned a lot from.
The prison scene was hilarious. When Charlie walks up to the big guy looking for protection.
Priceless scene when that guy walks up to Ice Cube and gets decked in one punch. Charlie's reaction said it all.
That reminds me of the action montage they showed of Ice Cube when the other teachers were trying to scare Charlie into thinking what a tough background Ice Cube had.
It's always fun to talk about a movie with someone else. Talking about it now reminded me of how much of a good time I had about it.
Don't forget the Charlie's daughters' talent show routine! Yes I agree. I'll have to see this movie again when it releases home.
