Have you seen that new Anna Kendrick movie Table 19?
No not yet, I did catch her promoting it on a late night talk show the other week though. How was it?
It was okay, just average in my opinion. It's a comedy directed Jeffrey Blitz and written by the Duplass brothers, Mark and Jay.
I wasn't too excited to run out to see it to be honest. I do enjoy Anna Kendrick movies though. She couldn't save the movie?
Well the movie wasn't the worse the movie ever or anything like that, it's just kind of really flat toned. I was expecting more upbeat crazy, like Office Christmas Party.
Office Christmas Party was pretty hilarious and off the wall.
Yeah, that was what I was kind of expecting but it's not. It has some humorous moments and dialogue but the movie is more of a romantic comedy flavor.
I remember seeing that Craig Robinson, Lisa Kudrow, and Stephen Merchant are in that movie. It seems that would be a recipe for some good laughs.
I really liked Stephen Merchant's character. He played an estrange cousin of the father who was imprison. His character was really quirky and meek. I laughed at all his moments and line though.
Stephen Merchant is such an underrated comedian and actor. I think people are starting to take notice of him though.
He's pretty big on the comedy circuit and well known. Other than his presence, the rest was forgettable for me. Craig Robinson and Lisa Kudrow played a married couple who owned a local diner.
What was with the meaning of the title, Table 19?
Oh, Table 19 basically referred to a table at the wedding ceremony where the rejected guest sat. Basically the bride sent out invitations and the ones they didn't expect a response from that accepted, they assigned to Table 19.
That's kind of sad. So basically it's the table set for the people who they felt obliged to invite but they really didn't want them to attend?
Yeah that's pretty much it. So the table in the movie had this former nanny, Craig and Lisa, Stephen and Anna, and this other guy.
Why was Anna at the reject table?
Well she used to date the brides brother but they broke up. She was also the brides former best friend but she fell out of grace and was assigned seating at the, losers, table.
That's awful! That does sound like it could of been a recipe for good comedy fun though.
I thought that too but it never really picked up any steam. The overall tone was whiny, melodramatic, and just not too original in the end.
Sounds disappointing. I'll probably pass on it for now and catch it down the road when it's on TV.
