So, your contention is that movies can be a good way to get people interested in history, right?
Yeah.  I think people who write history books are generally so devoted to getting absolutely every detail right, they bore people to death with minutiae.
You've got a point there.
You ask the average American soldier, for example, what the significance was of the Nuremberg trials after WW2, what answer do you think you'd get?
I don't even know what you're talking about.
See?  We do such a poor job of educating our citizens, you're a junior in college and you've never heard of them.
OK, I'll bite.  What was the significance of the Nuremberg trials?  And for the record, I'm a music major.
The Nuremberg defendants were tried for war crimes, like shooting unarmed prisoners,  and crimes against humanity, like killing millions of civillians.
You mean the Jews in concentration camps?
Yeah, but it wasn't just Jews--gypsies, communists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Poles, Political dissidents. Russians, gays, handicapped--those people killed anyone they didn't like.
What does that have to do with our soldiers today?
You've heard of Abu Gahraib, right?  Where US soldiers were ordered to humiliate and torture prisoners?
Rings a bell, but what's THAT got to do with Nazis?
The soldiers at Abu Gahraib thought what they were doing was ok,because they were following orders.
So?
The major defendants at Nuremberg tried to argue the same thing.  The courts found that some orders are illegal, like orders to torture someone, and that people have a duty to disobey those orders.  That's why some of our soldiers were court-martialed.  I think a General was even force to retire.
What's that got to do with movies?
There's a really good movie about it, called "Judgement at Nuremberg".  I think it was ,ade in like 1962, or something.  Our service men and women ought to see that movie in boot camp.  That way they will know better than to follow orders like that.
You and your old movies!
It's a good one.  Check it out.
