I can't wait for football season to start! What game are you looking forward to most?
I can't wait to watch Atlanta's home opener versus Green Bay!
That should be an awesome game, a rematch from last season.
Yeah, but it's early enough in the season that each roster should be pretty healthy.
Isn't that the first official game at the new stadium in Atlanta, too?
Yes, the new stadium looks awesome from what I can tell, but I'm really looking forward to seeing Aaron Rodgers and Matt Ryan.
Two of the better quarterbacks in the league right now, that's for sure.
They both have this crazy ability to keep the offense moving, even against the clock.
Well, when you have Jordy Nelson and Julio Jones to throw to, I imagine it's like playing backyard football.
Both Aaron and Matt just naturally like to air it out, but having such great receivers means a nightmare situation for both defenses.
Green Bay and Atlanta both need to improve on defense though, because both teams have lost on the big stage because of their defense.
I think Atlanta is slowly building on that side of the ball, signing some great rookies like Vic Beasley in the last couple of years.
Vic is a beast! He is really disruptive on the line and seems to play to the whistle, which is more than I can say about a lot of guys.
Green Bay has quite a few weapons, too! Mike Daniels plays mean and it's so fun to watch him stuff the run and get after the quarterback.
I agree that Mike is a great player, but Green Bay needs to improve their secondary. They allowed some of the most yards in the NFL last year!
I know that by the end of the season they had guys off of their practice squad starting in the playoffs, but there is no excuse for the poor play earlier in the season.
That corner that they have, Damarious Randall, used to be a basketball star, so I'm surprised he hasn't been doing better.
He did have a couple multiple pick games, but consistency was his issue.
He constantly got outrun on routes and had terrible vision, but luckily, Ha Ha Clinton-Dix was there to assist.
That guy is one of the real star safeties in the league, hard to believe he has only played a couple of seasons professionally.
