Have you seen the old horror movie Burnt Offerings?
No but I heard of it. Is it good?
Yes.  I love it. It sort of reminds me of Steven King's The Shining.
Really? I loved The Shining. How is Burnt Offerings like The Shining?
Well Burnt Offerings is basically the same premise with the parents taking care of a large place but instead of the father going insane like in The Shining, in Burnt Offerings the mother goes insane.
Wow.. that sounds great. DOes it take place in the winter where the family is trapped and isolated?
No, actually it is in the summer but they are somewhat isolated.
That sounds good but is it as good as The Shining?
I think so. It is a little different in that Betty Davis is also in it. She goes away with her nephew and his wife and son. The wife who goes insane is Karen Black.
Oh I love Betty Davis and I have seen some things with Karen Black in them.
Well Karen Black is supposed to care for this elderly lady who lives in the attic of this huge old house that they are renting from the family. Burgess Meredith is one of the owners who rents them the house.
That sounds good. What is the old lady in the attic like?
The great part is that you never get to see the old lady. She is supposedly eccentric and she has a huge room full of old photographs that the viewer is supposed to assume is her family.
That sounds interesting. The photos aren't from the family though?
Yeah.. in the end you realize that the photos are actually all of the old caretakers of the house that have died.
That sounds like the end of The Shining. Does the family die in the movie or just the mother like in The Shining where just the dad -Jack Nicholson- dies?
I do not want to spoil it for you but you asked so I will tell you. The family almost leaves the house after the house is clearly possessed.  The aunt - Betty Davis- dies earlier in the movie but the parents and the son attempt to leave.
They attempt to leave? Why don't they?
It turns out that the mother- Karen Black- turnes into the old lady who is like a devil.. just as they are leaving the mom goes back inside to tell the old lady that they are leaving but she doesn;t come out to the dad goes in to get her. IN the end, they are all killed.
That sounds really interesting. I think I will try and find it online to watch.
