Have you watched Berlin Syndrome?
No I haven't, who's in that movie and what's it about?
It stars Teresa Palmer and Max Riemelt. Teresa plays an Australian tourist named Claire visiting Berlin. She's a photojournalist. Max plays a town local and a school teacher named Andi.
I like Teresa Palmer she was in Lights Out and Warm Bodies. I liked those movie. She looks like Kristen Stewart to me.
Yeah a lot of people make that comment about their similarities. I think I like Teresa Palmer better overall. The movies really interesting though.
Tell me more about it.
It's labeled as a horror and thriller. I think that categorization is pretty appropriate. It's more of a thriller I'd say.
Oh good, I've been in the mood for something suspenseful of late. Tell me more.
Well as I was saying, Claire is a tourist traveling to Berlin. She arrives on her own and is taking in the city, snapping pictures. She seems like a pretty lonely, sad person.
I love movies that take place in Europe. It gives you a feel of traveling.
The cinematography is pretty excellent. You get a good feel for the city and the way it's shot is very moody. So basically Claire meets Max's character, Andi, on the street one day.
Was it just a chance encounter or did he approach her?
Pretty much chance, or so we think. He's basically following her and then picked up something she dropped and introduced himself to her. The proceed to go out.
This sounds pretty routine to me, like a romance movie.
That's how they want you to feel, the sense of isolation, then all of a sudden, hope and love, but it really turns dark quick.
Oh tell me what happens without spoiling too much!
Well turns out they go on a second date, and the next morning he has her locked up in his apartment. She doesn't think much of it just maybe he forgot and locked her in, but she realizes quickly that she's being held captive!
Wow, that's awful. That sounds like a horrific situation to be in as a tourist and meeting someone only to find out you've been basically kidnapped.
That's exactly it! So the movie plays back and forth with the her trying to figure out how to escape while at the same time trying to manipulate him to think she doesn't want to leave. This sets up a very entertaining and exciting watch, I really enjoyed the movie.
Thanks for the recommendation I'll give that movie a watch if I come across it. Sounds like it truly is a classic type of thriller.
