What is the most obscure movie you have ever seen?
I'm not really sure if it's obscure par say, but I've yet to find a single person that's heard of it. Which is quite surprising.
Oh? What is it and why is that?
Southland Tales and because it, in my opinion, has the best cast a movie could possibly have.
You're right - haven't heard of it. Who all is in it?
The Rock, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Justin Timberlake, Sean William Scott, and Curtis Armstrong... to name a few.
Oh wow. What an interesting combination. Sarah Michelle Gellar is still acting?
Well... it's an olderish movie that came out in 2006, but yeah. She's been in quite a few tv shows since then but I think her last movie role was in 2009's "Veronika Decides to Die".
That's a shame. Cool that Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson is still acting though.
Yeah, he's a good guy and a great actor. Did you know he's going to be in Shazam?
Oh that DC comic book series? Is he going to be Shazam? I could see that.
Actually he's going to be Black Adam because he feels villains and anti-heroes have the more interesting origin story.
That's true especially with Black Adam. Now that I think about it I couldn't imagine a better actor for the role.
Same. Haven't heard too much about the movie unfortunately, but rumor has it the powers that be have decided to possibly go with a Black Adam film now and pushed Shazam to the back burner.
Probably a good call. Too many hero movies, and Black Adam would make a much more interesting story.
Plus it helps to set the stage and build even more anticipation for Shazam.
I can't wait to see The Rock in Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle. Was skeptical about a Jumanji sequel but everything I've seen and heard makes me think it'll be just as good if not better than the original.
That has a dang good cast as well from what I remember. The Rock, Kevin Hart, Karen Gillian... can't remember who all else, but those three got me hooked instantly.
Karen Gillian had me the most curious at start, but I always thought she was the hottest companion in Doctor Who?
She certainly was up there for me too, but from the new series I always had a celebrity crush on Billie Piper. She was pretty awesome in Penny Dreadful as well.
