Hey, have you seen any of the Pirate of the Carrbiean movies?
Yes, I love those characters! They all are so great!
I think the costumes are awesome- esp. the Davy Jones Locker one. Do you remember that movie?
Yea, its when they go off in search of the treasure and Sparrow tells Will that he is Jone's son, right?
Yes- the special effects on that movie were AWESOME!
I was kind of sad that Will didn't really know anything about his dad, though. I mean, finding out that your dad was heartbroken and gave his heart up and became a cold monsters.. not realy, cool right?
I know, that part of the story line gets missed so much.. but there really is a cool historical background to these movies if you pay attention.
I just can't believe how well Sparrow's quips are.. he is hilarious! I was dying laughing the other day at his one-liners!
Right? Well, the fact that Elizabeth can throw it right back at him amazes me. Here's a woman, not afraid to say what she thinks.. in a time when women were property. Respect to the girl1 I love
I have always loved Kiera's characters in any movie she does, but she is exceptional in all of the Pirate movies.
I haven't sene the newest one yet. It just came out in theaters. Wanna go?
Yea, sure, I want to see it soon! I'm looking forward to another Pirates story!
For some reason, I've nevr much liked suspense.. but the fact that Jack goes off and searches for treasure all the time, meanwhile getting scary monsters to chase him makes me love these movies!
I think I heard this one was about him persuing some sort of trident, right?
Yea, the undead sea captain goes after him. Shall be entertaining.. how willl Jack outwit them this time?
Its always the ghosts that make life miserable for them, isn't it? He just can't lead a good ole fashioned normal pirate life without bringing in the ghosts and undead and sea creatures.
No, he can't.. thats the point of the whole series! The man goes unhinged trying to get what he wants, regardless of the price.. but I think they also make us think about our own souls and how we lead life too.
I can't wait to see this one .. shall be another one full of adventure, I hope! It is the fifth one though, I wonder how they will keep us from getting too bored.
I feel like the special effects carry us through now. Each time a movie comes out, there is some awesome effect.
True, let's go watch it this week then!
