I love horror movies. Do you know of any on Netflix that we can watch?
There are a bunch. The newest favorite of mine is Sinister.
I've heard of that. Is it scary or just one of those typical butcher movies. I like suspense.
No, it is very suspenseful and there is creepy violence.
What do you mean creepy? Is it another dark movie where you can't even see what is going on?
No, you can really see the action. It is just that it involves not just adults but whole families who die.
Really? Is there a serial killer on the loose or some fake monster?
It is so hard to explain. There are whole families who die in crazy ways.
Is there just one killer or is it some supernatural killer like in The Ring?
This guy-father played by Ethan Hawke is a writer and he takes his family (wife and 2 children) to a house where the whole family was murdered. Ethen Hawke is planning on writing about it.
I like those type of plots. Is there ghosts in the house?
Sort of... the previous family were all hung on a tree in the front yard but the daughter was not among the dead and she was never found again.
Is she being held hostage someplace or is she the killer?
Again, it is hard to explain. No the girl is not held hostage but she is a part of causing the killings of her family.
How could the daughter hang her full grown parents? It is starting to sound a bit far fetched and stupid.
No, you do not understand. It is really suspenseful and I do not want to give the ending away but the daughter is just one of many children who kill their family.
So the movie is focused on many different families? So does it jump from one house to another?
No, the father - Ethan Hawke- finds old movies in the attic and on the movies it shows all the other families being murdered- each time, one child goes missing.
It sounds sort of something I would like. Is it really as scary as you claim?
Trust me- I know you will like it. I especially love the ending. I do not want to tell you any more so I do not ruin it for you.
