Have you seen the movie, "The Arrival"?
No, but I want to see it. What did you think of it?
I thought it was the best movie I've seen in years. I would give it a 10 out of 10, easily.
Wow. What do you think makes it so great?
The way they developed the plot was unique. It makes you think and inspires a sense of curiosity and wonder the entire time, while Amy Adams was superb in her role, and I would have to say she is now my favorite actress.
That's cool. I think she's a good actress, but I haven't loved all of her movies.
She has done a few that were just so-so. After "The Arrival" though, I want to see all of her upcoming movies.
Do you think she gets cast for her looks as well as her acting?
I would say she brings a certain magic to the screen, even if she is not a knockout in the looks department. I do find her curiously very attractive somehow, nevertheless.
I think I know what you mean. She doesn't look like a supermodel, but there is something sweet and charming about her, even though she gives an impression of being extremely smart.
I agree.
What else do you think makes this movie so terrific?
Well, it's not really a very original premise for a movie, but it was just executed extremely well. The writing, directing, acting, etc. just made it a great overall movie.
Yeah, I know what you mean. When something is really great, it's hard to pin down one reason why it's that good.
It's "the whole is greater than the sum of the parts" -- a synergistic effect.
That's a good way to explain it. Who else was in it besides Amy Adams?
The guy who plays Hawkeye in the Avengers, Clint Barton, plays the lead male role. The lead character happens to be a female in this movie, which is kind of cool.
Do you think this is the kind of movie that could win the Oscar for best picture?
It was a really great movie, but it wasn't truly ground breaking and it didn't make any social or political statements that usually leads to a best picture nomination.
That's kind of a shame. I definitely am looking forward to seeing it, maybe even more now.
