I just saw the new John Wick movie, "John Wick: Chapter 2.
"I've been wanting to see that. How was it?
Actually, given the audience feedback and reviews, I was expecting something a little better. There was a lot of constant action, but the movie was kind of just okay.
That's kind of dissappointing. Why do you say that it was just okay?
Well, as far as the action goes, I kind of felt like I was watching someone play Call of Duty and just constantly shooting people in the head. There were enough plot twists to keep me engaged in the story, but just barely.
It's Keanu Reeves, right?
Yes.
How is he in it?
He was his typical self. His acting is a little bit forced, as if he is saying something the way he thinks it should be said, rather than giving a sense that he really is the character being portrayed.
In other words, he's just kind of a lousy actor.
I wouldn't say lousy, but I would have to say that he gets cast because of his boxoffice appeal, and not because of his ability to do a great portrayal of the character.
So would you give it a thumbs up or thumbs down?
I would say that if you know what you should expect from the movie and want to be entertained by a basic action movie, then it's a thumbs up. As far as it being a "good" movie, I couldn't recommend it as such.
Who else is in it besides Keanu?
It's funny, but they decided to cast Lawrence Fishburn as one of the gang leaders in the movie. With him and Keanu in the same scenes it felt like I was watching another Matrix movie.
Are there any hot girls?
One of the main antagonists is a woman. I would say she does a good job of giving the impression of being a dangerous killer, but she wasn't there to add a lot of sex appeal to the movie.
I don't know if I want to bother renting it. Maybe I'll wait until it comes on cable or something.
I think if there aren't any other good recent movies that you haven't rented yet, it might be worth a couple bucks to see it.
Alright -- maybe next time I go to the Redbox I'll take a look at what's there and decide then.
