It's a really intersting story which is structured like a book with about 5 chapters.
Isn't that classic Tarantino? He breaks up his movies like that, right?
I guess so. It may feel a little slow during the first two chapters which are really just the chapters in which the four main characters are introduced.
I heard that it speeds up halfway through the movie.
Yeah, and that is not to say that the rest before it was no good. It's just sort of a lot of nothing without consequences, if you know what I mean.
Yeah, I have seen movies like that before.
Anyway, in chapter 3, some information starts to be revealed. You said you're going to see it, so I do not want to spoil it.
Just don't give away the ending, and I am fine.
Okay, so during chapter 3, it is revealed that there may be liars in the cabin they are in. Everyone is a suspect except for Kurt Russel.
They could not have all been suspicious characters though. If it was seven against one, couldn't they have all jumped him when they were all together?
Right, and not all of them were. Russel just suspected one or two of them, but he had no proof as to which one of them it was, so he had to worry about everyone.
Okay, none of that sounds like a spoiler.
Okay, this is the part which is a bit of a spoiler. It turned out that Samuel L. Jackson was not entirely truthful when he first met Russel. I won't tell you about what though.
This really does sound interesting. Maybe we should see it together tomorrow.
I think I would want to wait awhile before seeing it again. If you are paying attention to the movie, then everything will be thrown into doubt once you find out about it.
That is disappointing- it's one of those movies which loses it's flair after you see it once?
No, it is worth watching again, but a lot of the magic comes from being just as confused as the characters are.
Okay, that does not sound too bad. It feels a little gimmicky though. How long is the movie?
I guess, but it's executed well, and it's genuinely entertaining to watch it all unfold. The movie is a little over two hours long.
I would definitely need to watch it during the weekend then.
