I really enjoy most Samuel L. Jackson films, and I am glad he is a staple in Tarantino films.
That's cool, how was Jennifer Leigh?
I think she was great in the movie, but I really don't know all that much about her. Prior to this, I can't say I saw say I saw any of her films.
How can you have never seen any of her films before- she is not Jackson big, but she's a pretty big star.
Really, what movies has she been in before that I might have or should have seen?
She was big in weeds- I know you watch a lot of television, so you should have seen here in that, and she was the voice of the tempest in Hercules. I know you watch Hercules back in the day.
Wow, I guess I have seen some of her work. That was just a voice over though. What are some of her more recent works that I have seen?
She's mostly in television and does voice over acting, and she has done some memorable movies like Me, and Welcome to Me.
Sounds like she does movies about "Me."
That was just a coincidence. They were good movies though.
What does she have that is coming out recently- I would prefer to go see her in the theaters next time she comes out rather than watching an older film.
What do you have against older films? She is in Road to Perdition- that is a classic.
I don't have anything against classics, but I don't have all day to sit around and watch movies- I try to cram my social life, exercise, and entertainment experiences all into one evening.
That is kind of sad- you can't do all that in one night. Anyway, she is going to be starring in a movie called "Good Time."
You want to go see that when it comes out- I am sure the others will want to go.
You have not even asked me what the movie is about.
I just wanted to see one of her movies to say I did.
Hm, well it is about a bank robber who can't seem to shake the people who are following him- I think it's different from other bank heist movies in the sense that the people who are chasing him are like specters rather than cops in a high speed chase.
Okay, that does sound fun. Any idea what her role is in the movie?
I dunno- she is probably his girlfriend or something.
