Are you a Mel Brooks fan?
I'd say so.  I mean, not every movie of his is my favorite, but he definitely made some classics.
Sure did.  I don't think anyone would argue that Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein aren't brilliant.
Absolutely, those are two of the best.  No matter how many times I watch them, they make me laugh.
Well, you can't beat the casts in both of them.  Gene Wilder, Madeline Kahn, Marty Feldman, Teri Garr, they're all great.
Oh, the best.  I love Harvey Korman, too.  I thought he was so terrific in Blazing Saddles.
I also liked him a lot in High Anxiety.
Yup, me too.  I'd consider that one of the less appreciated of Mel's movies.  It's always been one of my favorites though.
I think if you don't know Hitchcock movies very well, you might not like it as much.
Right. Mel Brooks told a story on some talk show once about showing it to Hitchcock and he liked it a lot.
Did he? That's so cool. Figures he would have good taste.
For sure. How about Silent Movie? Have you seen that one?
Oh yeah. Now that's one that nobody talks about. And you hardly ever see it anywhere.
So true. Blazing Saddles and Young Frankenstein come up all the time. And rightly so. But Silent Movie definitely gets short shrift.
It's funny, when I saw that, I was pretty young and I really didn't think I would like it because it actually was a silent movie.
Well, except for the music.
Right, music and sound effects here and there. But I was pretty prejudiced against it going in and surprisingly--or not surprisingly given that it's Mel Brooks--I really had a great time and thoroughly enjoyed it.
Me too. I loved the cameos of the celebrities. You know, Burt Reynolds and Liza Minnelli and James Caan all playing themselves. It was a great sendup of Hollywood.
It sure was. I would put it in the same category as my other Mel Brooks favorites. In fact, talking about it makes me wanna see it again.
I was thinking the same thing. We should find some Mel Brooks fans who've never seen it because they'd probably really get a kick out of it.
