You know, I don't go to the movies nearly as much as I used to.
Really? How come?
Oh, I don't know. Different reasons, I guess. It's so expensive now. Movies are mostly mediocre these days.
I can't disagree with that. More often than not, I'm disappointed when I go to the theater.
I know, right? Plus you can see things on demand on television in, like, the same time frame as you can see them in the theater.
I hate that. It totally takes away that special quality that seeing a movie in the theater used to have. I used to get really excited about seeing a new movie in the theater. Now it's like no big deal.
That's really sad. The only good part of that is for that rare movie that really is special, it totally stands out from the rest.
Uh-huh. What's your most recent example of something like that?
For me, it would be a La La Land. I saw that at a great old fashioned theater downtown with a huge screen and a great sound system and no adjoining theaters on either side.
That sounds excellent. It must've been amazing.
Completely. It felt like the old days, and it was definitely an experience that you couldn't have watching TV. It was the perfect movie for that kind of situation, very magical and transporting.
Was it crowded?
It was fairly crowded. But that's the nice thing about this theater: the rows are nicely separated from one another so even if people are talking too much or otherwise been distracting--
Like, with their phones and stuff.
Oh, you know it. That's one of the main reasons I don't go to movies anymore. I can't stand people blabbing away on their cell phones. It drives me crazy.
You and me both. It's so rude.
Yeah, what's so important that they can't wait until the movie is over? Or if they have such an important conversation to have, why go to the movies in the first place?
So irritating. The texting drives me crazy, too. Seeing those little bright screens all around the audience totally takes me out of the movie.
It was so nice. When I saw La La Land, there wasn't any of that going on.
Man, I wish it was like that all the time.
