I really miss the cinema of the 70s.
Yeah, I feel you on that. Were movies really so much better back then, is it just us?
No, there was definitely a different dynamic at work back then.
I feel like everything that comes out now is either a reboot or a sequel or based on an existing property…
That's because marketers have completely destroy the studio system that they once set free.
What do you mean 'set free'?
Well I mean all those studios were initially started by a couple guys who would control and okay what kind of films got made. Goldwyn, Mayer, the Warner Brothers, all the guys those studios are named after determine what Hollywood looked like.
Okay...so?
So when they are retired in the 60s after working in Hollywood 40 or 50 years, marketing people started making the calls  about what films got made. And they saw that kids were driving the box office, so they brought in by two young directors to appeal to them.
That sounds about right. There were suddenly a lot of new big shot directors in the 70s... Martin Scorsese, Steven Spielberg, George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola...
Exactly, and big studios were giving these kids all sorts of money to take all sorts of chances and make these new crazy kinds of movies.
Yeah, and it was pretty awesome, so what happened?
Well for one Jaws and Star Wars happened, and studios got a taste of truly blockbuster box office money. They wanted everything then to be the next one of those movies.
But those movies were from the 70s, why didn't it get really bad until last 10 years or so?
Well finally the technology cut up to the point where studios could do incredibly visually elaborate versions of every toy and comic book franchise that's ever existed. Franchises with large, built-in audiences.
Oh, so then Hollywood could just make blockbuster versions of franchises they know for a fact there are already a lots of fans for.
Exactly. They don't have to worry about establishing name recognition, or whether or not something will catch on, they know for a fact that if they throw enough money at an existing franchise, they're guaranteed to at least get a certain number of fans there opening weekend.
It's all about opening weekend now too, isn't it? They used to give movies more of a chance before declaring it was a bomb, didn't they?
Yep, now if there big-budget vehicle based on an existing property doesn't rake in  a huge sum first thing, they assume it's a failure.
In a way they're kind of right. People's attention spans are so short now that everything becomes old news very very quickly, and we're already on to the next thing.
