There are as many types of movies to see as there are prople that like them.  Which types do you like?
I like historical type movies and dramas of real life situations.  I enjoyed the movie Das Boot for that reason.
Yes that was an old one and showed what it was like from the other side.  Those guys sure did party to the max and had very short lives in the end.
Yes, I liked the part where they had been sunk down over 900 feet and had to fix all kinds of things and finally were able to surface as the air was running out. Scary stuff.
They really showed the personalities of the men and the person who provided the information used in the movie wrote the book about it and had lived through all of the incidents depicted.  Just when they thought they might be safely home they were bombed and many were killed and the boat sunk again.
First hand accounts can be pretty exciting.  I like street dramas too.  Did you see On the Corner ?
Yes the movie about all the people living on a ghetto street trying to survive?  It gave a real human face to the struggles of the people there and how many of them had to struggle with addiction.
Sure, and the limited opportunities available and the education so hard to get there.  Some were able to fight their way out but most did not have the resources and had to find ways to survive.
That was a real eye opener.  Another movie I liked was One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.  It was comical and sad all at the same time.
It really put out there the things that people suffer in the mental health system.  It opened up my eyes, for sure.
I liked the movie Awakenings, also about mental health issues.  Robin Williams did a great job and so did Robert DeNiro as the patient.
Sure, the doctor tried a new medication to see if it would help his ward of catatonic patients and one by one they came conscious and were able to move around.
any for the first time in years.  They were able to act and feel normal again but it only lasted for a few months and they sadly regressed back to their old state as the medication wore off.
Yes it was based on a true story.  At least they had a few months of an almost normal life albeit in a mental institution.
I also liked Rainman with Dustin Hoffman and Tom Cruise.  Dustin did an awesome job of playing an autistic man that had incredible memory and math talents.
Yes it was pretty comical at times and brought out some of the issues of special needs people at the time.  I liked the part where he wouldn't fly on the plane because he knew of all of the accidents of all the airlines.  I think he would only fly El Al because of no accidents but it did not fly where they needed to go.
Yeah, They went in their recently deceased father's old Buick cross country and had many adventures along the way.
Sure, I liked the part where they stopped in Vegas and Dustin was able to choose the correct cards and games and won a huge amount of money for his brother.
Yes, the casino didn't like that they were winning so much and thought they were cheating.  I think they put them out accusing them of card counting which I guess is illegal.
Not before Rainman won enough money for his brother to pay off his big debts and they made their getaway.  I love it when the small guy wins.
