Hey, who's your favorite director?
Oh gee, that's kind of a tough one. I'm such a movie fan and I definitely have a long list of directors I admire.
I do too. But if you had to pick just one, who would it be?
OK let me think. I guess if I really had to pick one out of all the ones I like, it would probably have to be Steven Spielberg.
Oh sure, he's one of my top favorites too. When you start thinking about his movies, there are just so many amazing iconic films.
Definitely. I go all the way back to Close Encounters as one of my first all time favorite films.
That's an amazing movie. Really ahead of its time and really epic in scope.
Wasn't it? Such an original idea back and then to do a movie about alien visitors who weren't evil or out to destroy us.
Yeah, that's what blew me away. And he really got me with his misdirection in so many scenes where you believed the aliens were up to no good.
I kind of think of that movie as the precursor to E.T. in a way. And then of course he turned it all around later on with War of the Worlds, which was visually amazing.
All of his movies are amazing to look at, even the ones that aren't that great story wise. Like Hook, for instance. I know a lot of people like that one, but it's one of my least favorite.
Yeah, you and I agree on that one. I thought it was annoying, to be honest. And I really loved Robin Williams in almost everything I saw him in. But that one? No.
Now on the other side of the coin, one of my all time favorite Spielberg movies is Empire of the Sun. I think it's an incredible film.
It looks like we like the same ones. That's one of my big favorites. A beautiful movie.
It was the first time I ever saw Christian Bale in anything and I thought his performance was so strong, especially for his age. He was just a kid at the time.
I know, it's funny. Amazing that he's Batman now.
Not to mention the lunatic from American Psycho.
Oh, that was terrifying. In Empire, he was so cute. Even though his character was kind of a brat, you still fell in love with him.
Because it wasn't his fault. He was brought up spoiled and privileged. But he learned a hard lesson, that's for sure.
Indeed. That was one of the first movies that ever made me cry. You know, the scene where he reunites with his parents.
