Have you seen that Nicole Kidman movie that takes place in France?
You mean Moulin Rouge? Yes, and it seriously made me cry at the end.
Yeah, but it is nice once in a while to see sad endings. It lets you remember that not everything in life is happy.
Well, I for one like to have a good ending to my movies. Moulin Rouge was awesome except for its literally killer ending
Well, how did you enjoy that other movie you went to see at the theater this weekend?
You mean Finding Dory right? Ehh it was ok but nothing like the original am I right?
Yes, remakes of originals seldom are as good. You just put so much standard on the original that the sequal isn't as good.
True, like Pirates of the Carribbean. The original was great but they tried to outdo it in the sequels but it just wasn't the same
You know what I can't stand sometimes that Hollywood does, speaking of remakes?
I know what you're going to say already. When they take an old classic from long ago and "retool" it for a newer audience.
There is one thing I can't stand about movie remakes. They always think that you have to put more violence and foul language into them.
I know, its like they don't believe a movie can be clean and funny anymore to be good. They ooze drama with everything they put out no
So which movie that is already out that you haven't seen yet would you like to see?
You're going to think I am way behind the times, but I just saw on Netflix that they put Happy Feet on there so thats next on my list.
Happy Feet? That movie came out 11 years ago. Why haven't you watched it yet?
Hey, I also have a busy social life too. I can't just watch every movie that comes out.
I know which movie my kids used to play that drove me up the wall and I bet your kids did it too.
It was Frozen wasn't it? I tell you after hearing the song Let It Go in the movie and on the radio so much, I seriously wanted to scream.
I don't know, sometimes some of the best catchy songs come from movies. Remember I See The Light from Tangled?
I don't mean to say all songs from movies are like that. I mean just the ones they overplay on the radio and on TV.
