What NFL rookie are you most excited about seeing play?
I think I am most excited to see what happens with Mitch Trubisky in Chicago.
Oh so you are interested in if he will be a boom or bust?
Yeah, with everything Chicago gave up to get him, I am interested to see how he performs.
Do you think he is going to start for the Bears this year?
I think it all depends on how he does at training camp and in the pre-season. I know they have Glennon, so they might not be planning on starting him.
Didn't the Bears also sign Sanchez, too?
Yeah, they picked him up earlier this year, but he was injured turning an offseason workout, so Trubisky might have to be ready to play.
There usually aren't that many quarterbacks in the NFL that find success their first year.
Dak Prescott was extrememly lucky last year to be in such a great situation.
He had the leading rusher to really take the pressure off his throwing the ball, but with what he did do, it seemed fairly accurate.
I think that Dak's situation is unique in today's NFL because he was able to take some time as they leaned heavily into their run game.
That's very true, I just think that it's tough to be a first year quarterback in the NFL, no matter your talent level.
Yes and that's why Mitch will be fun to watch because he did not play very long in college before being drafted by the Bears.
It will be interesting to see if he is an upgrade from Cutler, since he left to join the broadcast booth.
Cutler was a talented quarterback at one time, but it's almost like he stopped liking to play when the team wasn't adding stars.
At least the Bears have a better running game than they have the last few years.
Howard will likely be able to help Mitch or Mike Glennon get comfortable in the offense before having to throw too much.
That will be great for them, but I hope they aren't counting on a Zeke Elliot situation, because Howard is not him.
No, but he will be a great serviceable running back as they try to improve their record this year.
