In The Hateful 8, Samuel L. Jackson plays the role I think he thought he was going to be playing in Django.
Jamie Fox was a badass in Django. He was killing everyone. So that's how it was in this movie?
No, I would not say it was like that. Yeah, he was tough- I can't think of a role he has played in which he was not tough.
How about the house slave in Django?
That was a different kind of tough in that movie- he ruled the roost. Anyway, in this movie he comes off as a detective- imagine if Sherlock Holmes was from the hood.
He was trying to solve a crime?
No, but throughout the movie, everything is pretty much happening inside of one location, and he is really familiar with that location. The place has small quirks about it here and there and throughout the movie he is in the background putting clues together.
So a crime did occur in the place he was in?
Actually, yes. They were in a cabin, and it turns out that earlier in the day several people inside of the cabin were murdered.
That should have been easy to figure out. Wouldn't there have been blood everywhere?
There was sort of blood all over the place, but there was a montage which signified that the criminals did take time to clean things up.
That sounds kind of unrealistic- how are they going to be able to clean blood out of a cabin- wasn't it made of wood? Have you ever tried cleaning anything out of real wood?
I guess it was a little unrealistic.
I would not have been able to look past something like that. How did you miss that or ignore that?
I don't know. The premise felt really cool. I got caught up in trying to figure out who among the people in the cabin was the killer.
Wait, if there were a bunch of people in the cabin, shouldn't at least one of them have seen who the killer was?
That is the thing, they were all the killers, except for this old man who they threatened so he would keep quiet.
That does sound sort of interesting, but I can't get over the cabin full of evidence which should have been obvious. Why didn't they kill the old man?
They said he looked "authentic" so they kept him alive to make their story of being random travelers who didn't know each other more believable.
Okay, that really sounds pointless.
