What genre of movie do you like the most?
Definitely horror. They're great for getting your blood pumping.
What is your favorite horror movie?
Halloween. Because it focuses a lot more on creating a great spooky atmosphere and unnerving enemy than any other horror movie I've ever seen.
What do you think Michael Myers really is?
Considering he's come back from the dead so many times and survived so much, I'd have to say that he is some form of legitimate boogieman. However, I really want to ignore the canon explanation of the sequels that he's the result of some cult activity.
Does that mean you don't take the Halloween sequels as canon?
Yes and no. I take the second as canon because it directly continues the story and I take H20 as canon for the same reason, but I don't quite believe a lot of what they ask you to believe for the others.
Did you know they used an altered William Shatner mask to make the original Michael Mask?
Yeah, it's amazing how well it turned out. It is definitely the creepiest horror movie mask ever.
But the one they used in the later movies wasn't that good.
Yeah, in the later sequels the mask looks weird and they don't light the shots right to keep his eyes fully black. Plus, in the reboot, the mask is way too disheveled and looks terrible.
What do you think about the Halloween reboots?
I think they had a great basis to start with, going further into the psyche of Michael as a child, but they just completely misstepped and turned it into a joke. The sequel made it much worse.
What would you want in another Halloween reboot or sequel?
Laurie returning as a hero or Jamie returning and being the killer. They almost went that route the Jamie in the fifth movie and Laurie was getting very awesome as a fighter in H20.
I'm not sure if Jamie Lee Curtis could reprise her role to do that movie, though.
It's a far long shot of it ever happening for many reasons, but it's what I'd most want out of the series. It's something new and fresh and we don't have enough female heroes and villains in horror movies.
Jamie was also basically retconned out of the series, right?
I'm not sure that was ever solidified, but if they want to return to an alternate reality to make a great movie far be it from be to stop them.
