Did you see the movie "Bad Moms?"
No, but I heard it was pretty popular.
It was a box office smash, it made over 100 million at the box office. So of course they have a sequel coming out.
Did you go see it?
I watched it on cable on OnDemand. I might go see this one at the theatre, because it's coming out during a prime movie month.
When is it coming out?
In November. It's called "Bad Moms Christmas." I always end up going to the movie theatre when I'm out doing Christmas shopping and I get tired and need to sit down for awhile.
That's a good idea. I usually end up going to a restaurant to take a shopping break, but between all I eat at Thanksgiving and Christmas, maybe I should take a movie break instead.
This should be pretty funny, because the moms are rebelling against all the things housewives have to do during the holidays.
Sometimes I feel like rebelling. The shopping and cooking is one thing, but having to run around all the time doing errands makes me feel like a taxi driver, especially with the kids.
There's a trailer of the movie out, showing them drinking beer and complaining about how they are expected to make a picture perfect holiday.
Oh my gosh, that might get me in trouble and make me feel like rebelling.
I know. I don't like to drink, because then I just get tired, and I'm already tired enough. But sometimes I would just like to be sitting on the couch with my feet up, not running to a department store to get new lights because the old ones don't work on the tree.
The problem is you have so much company over for the holidays, you feel like if you don't make it look good, people will wonder why you didn't care.
That's one of the things in the movie, when the bad moms own moms get involved in the picture.
Sometimes relatives do get overwhelming during the holidays.
This sounds like a good movie to go see while I'm out shopping and get tired. Maybe some laughter will help me get back out into the stores and get done what I need to do.
I might want to come to this movie with you. This year though, I'm planning on doing a lot of my shopping online to avoid the crowds.
We can go together, and compare notes with each other and the bad moms on how we're handling the holidays.
All right, it's a date. But no beer- I'm going to need a Pepsi to keep my energy up.
