I really like old classic movies, how about you?
Well, I like some of them, especially the film noir stuff from the 1940's.
Oh, film noir, yes, I like that kind of movie too...especially with famous stars like Evelyn Keys, Robert Mitchum, Humphrey Bogart and many more.  I also like the comedies of the 1940's, how about you?
Hmm...I do like comedies in general, but my favorite comedy films come from the 1960's, you know, like The Producers.
The original Producers was great!  The casting was incredible.  I think that film inspired future comedies, things like the Pink Panther, and all those other Mel Brooks films.  Do you have a favorite Mel Brooks film?
I would say The Producers, the original one.  I also liked Young Frankenstein.
Those were gems!  I must admit that I found Blazing Saddles wildly funny.  I thought the second version of The Producers was okay, but lost something compared to the original.  Why is it when they re-do a movie it is rarely as good as the original?
Beats me, but I totally agree.  There have been some lousy remakes.
Oh, here's one that comes to mind, Sabrina.  That was a perfectly fine Audrey Hepburn/Humphrey Bogart vehicle, but when they remade it, it was just sad.
<laughs> That's for sure!  I understand that Gaslight, the Ingrid Bergman/Charles Boyer version, was a remake of an English film.  I found both were good, and both had different takes, including different supporting characters.
That's interesting, I hadn't seen the earlier version, do you know who stars in that version?
English actors, Anton Walback, or something like that.  It was made just a few years before the Hollywood version.
That's interesting, I think I will Google it and check it out.  It sure is fun to explore movies, isn't it!
Yes!  Do you like musicals?
Yes, I like the sappy ones from the 40's and 50's.  I love Fred Astaire, Gene Kelly, you know, all those talented folks.
Me too.  I can't think of a musical I like in current times though.
It really was a different era back then, and the movies sure reflected it.
I did not like the musical Evita, if you could call that a musical.
I found Evita to be a real downer, and I got sick of the same song going on and on!  Speaking of going on and on, I'm out of time!  Let's talk about movies tomorrow too, okay?
That would be great!  Lovely to talk with you, good bye.
