What movie do you think had the best plot ever?
Oh, easily Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure.
That was a really unique plot, which is rare in movies.
Time travel has been done before, but they used it in such a unique way in the film as to why the characters were doing it.
I loved the interaction between the time travel characters and Bill and Ted. There was such a fondness and friendship between them.
I wasn't really much a fan of Keanu Reeves other films, but I thought he was so adorable in that movie.
He was cute, so much so that I felt bad for Alex Winter trying to keep up with him.
I wonder if that's why Alex didn't get the big movie offers Keanu did, because everyone's attention focused so much on Keanu.
Maybe so, because Alex was cute in his own way, and he did a great job at the comedic parts.
The supporting actors all did such a great job in this movie. They helped make the movie great because they were all so good in their roles.
I know what you mean. George Carlin was naturally great as you would expect him to be, but all the actors with the smaller roles played their characters perfectly.
It's no wonder this movie was such a success. I'm not someone who just goes to movies all the time, I go when there's something I really want to see, and I went to the theatre to see this when it came out.
Word spreads when a movie is great, and then people who might not have even thought about going decide to go see it.
It had really great box office ratings. It cost like 10 million to make or something. and then made 40 million, which in 1989 was big money.
So many movies made what wouldn't be considered big money nowadays , but people don't realize what the difference in money was back then.
It seems nowadays that money used to stretch farther back then. Income was lower, but prices were lower, and you could get more for your money.
I like to travel back in time watching movies by watching the Turner Classic Movie Channel and watching all the old movies back from the 40s.
I like TCM too. I just watched Lassie Come Home this weekend on TCM.
I like watching all the movies set in war time, and how brave all those people were.
I think there's a lot to learn about history from movies. Bill and Ted was great because it probably introduced some younger people to characters they didn't really know that well from history, like Genghis Khan.
