I read an article today about how they are warning there has been a big increase in the number of great white sharks on the east coast.
Uh oh, just like the movie Jaws.
Yep, it's that time of the year. Every July, the sharks are out and so are the people on the beaches. That's why they play the Jaws movies all month long every year.
That shark in Jaws was so fake looking.
Well, these sharks aren't fake. They said three years ago they counted eighty sharks, and last year they counted 147.
Why are the great whites increasing so much? Does it have something to do with global warming?
No, they said it's because since the 70s they have been trying to help conservation of gray seals, and that's what the great whites eat.
According to the Jaws movie, they like to eat people.
I wasn't allowed to watch the Jaws movies when they came out. I was a young teen and my parents said they were too scary.
Well, it's not like you ever had to worry about it living in Indiana. The worst thing about the beaches on Lake Michigan are the rip currents. That's what kills people every year who go too far out.
Back then, parents were a lot more conservative about what they let kids watch on tv and at the movies. No violence, scary stuuf, cussing, sexual scenes.
I know what you mean. My sister's grandson came over last summer, and wanted to watch one of my dvds, Fast and Furious 7. I asked him if his dad lets him watch those movies at home, and he said yes and was telling me all about them to prove he's watched them. He's only six years old.
Six is too young to be watching movies like The Fast and The Furious. He should be watching Disney movies at that age.
His dad would probably let him watch the Jaws movies then if they are on this summer.
I was 14 and my parents wouldn't let me go to the movies and see it.
I probably would let a 14 year old watch Jaws, but not a six year old.
To tell the truth, it's probably better I didn't watch it back then. I was the type to scare easily and have nightmares. I still don't watch scary movies nowadays.
But you're comfortable now with Jaws?
Well, last summer when I was watching it, I was sitting really close to the tv, and talking to my daughter and son-in-law. I wasn't paying close attention, and I looked over at the screen, and suddenly the shark jumped up on the screen, and I jumped back. Everyone had a good laugh at me.
Oh how funny. I would have laughed too.
