did you ever see Spike Lee's movie, "Do the Right Thing?"
I've seen a couple of Lee's films, but not that one.  what was it about?
It was Spike's first successful movie in terms of the box office.  it was released in 1987 or 1988 and basically concerned race relations and how complicated these relations can get.
Sounds interesting.  Were any of the actors very well known?
there may have been one or two that were sort of well known, but there were certainly no super stars in it.  Lee had one of the bigger parts as an employee in a pizzeria.
I had heard that he was an actor in some of his earlier films.  did you like the movie?
In fact I liked it very much.  I would rate it in my top 10 films of all time.
Wow! that's saying a lot.  you're a 61 year old white male so i wouldn't think you'd say that.  Clearly the majority of Lee's fans are Black.
well, i think "do the right thing" is a movie that anyone, of any race or nationality, or either gender should see.  it's  a very thought provoking movie.
What makes you say that? was his portrayal of race relations in this country fair?
it's hard to say if his portrayal was fair.  it's a complicated issue.  i would say his portrayal was probably fairly accurate, but it's not really clear-cut; its complicated.
tell me more about the movie.  was it very controversial?
I would say it was very controversial.  a person would probably have to see it at least twice to appreciate everything Lee was trying to say.  I think he was trying to get people to see that it's hard for Blacks and Whites to understand each other, especially when things get tough.
and how did "things get tough" in the movie? did they get tough for whites as well as blacks?
absolutely.  you had a white business owner who depended on blacks, in a mostly black neighborhood, to keep his pizzeria running.  yet the owner had some "issues" with blacks.  so it turned out to be very complicated.  and some of the blacks certainly had issues with whites, as well.
sounds like a very interesting movie i probably would like.  tell me about one scene that stands out in your mind.
well, i don't want to give anything away, but many of the patrons of the pizzeria became very frustrated with certain things that the owner said and did.
so it sounds like there was some kind of confrontation.  and did things get resolved?
Let's put it this way.  it's up to the viewer of the film to decide if things got "resolved."  they certainly hit a boiling point.  I think Lee wanted to let the audience take from the film what they chose to.  as well as, as i said, making the viewers think.
well you certainly have convinced me...i'm going to see the film.  i hope i like it as much as you did.
