What's your favorite movie of all time?
Definitely "The Blues Brothers" with John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd.
John Belushi was a really funny guy. I loved his Saturday Night Live skits.
Me too. That era of Saturday Night Live was the best with those players.
It's clear because so many of them went on to have such great movie careers.
Dan Aykroyd had a successful time with Ghostbusters with Bill Murray.
Bill Murray did well in lots of movies, and of course Chevy Chase had great success with the Vacation movies.
It's a shame John Belushi died so young, because he had such potential that we never got to see.
What makes The Blues Brothers your favorite movie?
John's dialogue, and the way he says things. Dan is pretty much just his foil for his antics.
There were so many different funny parts to that movie, just one after another. But I really laughed when John was holding Carrie Fisher and kissing her, and then he let go and dumped her in the mud.
I liked when he was down on his knees begging her for forgiveness, and he took off his sunglasses, and then wiggled his eyebrow at her, and she suddenly forgave him. It showed how well he could communicate with just one look.
He did have a charisma about him that was amazing, considering he wasn't what people would consider Hollywood Handsome.
I often wonder if people who are overweight become comedians because they figure instead of letting people laugh at them behind their back, they will make them laugh and then be appreciated.
That's probably true. A lot of great comedians have been overweight.
I always thought John Belushi was cute because he had such expressive eyes. He was like a bad little boy you just wanted to cuddle and make him behave.
It's too bad his wife didn't do that instead of doing drugs.
So many movie and tv stars end up with drug problems.
It's such a sad loss of potential like you said about John. The drugs stop you from seeing all they could have done.
You would think Hollywood would see this and try to do more to help movie stars from going down that path.
