I keep trying to show my kids movies that I watched growing up, and... how were we allowed to watch this stuff? They're good movies, but good grief, the thought of exposing my kids to the attitudes and the language and the violence in these...
Yeah, times change. The '80s don't seem so long ago, and aside from the Internet it's not totally obvious what's changed since then, but society has gone through some huge revolutions.
I know that times change, but i'm kind of aghast at what was considered not only appropriate for kids, but the actual substance of what you should show them.
We're talking Spielberg, right?
In particular, yeah -- and the whole roadshow he brought with him, of second-tier writers and directors, and all the imitators. Anything with a wise-ass blond boy with a shaggy bowl cut, really.
Funny, that. Spielberg kid hair. Did they get any of that right in Stranger Things?
I don't remember the hair. Except for Eleven. Was too busy freaking out.
So who are the other directors he worked with? Lucas, I guess.
Right, of course -- but he supervised a whole team of other directors. Zemeckis, Donner, Joe Dante, Tobe Hooper. Pretty much summer tentpole movie that wasn't Ghostbusters was from his wheelhouse.
Wait, Tobe Hooper? Like, Texas Chainsaw Massacre?
Same guy, yeah. Poltergeist, right?
Oh, right. I guess that makes sense.
That's a good example, if an extreme one. Poltergeist was supposed to be a family movie, you know?
Was it? Without even getting into the details, that sounds wrong.
It was rated PG. They wanted to give it an R, but Spielberg talked it down because he wanted kids to see it.
Man, that... does not make sense to me. I've seen adult horror movies that are less horrific.
That's what I'm talking about, though! Again, this is an extreme example, but it just goes to show how the standards have shifted.
I could see it getting a PG-13, maybe, if pressed. I'm remembering some scenes now, like the melting face in the mirror...
Well, PG-13 wasn't a thing yet. You know why that rating was introduced, eventually? To deal with Spielberg.
He got his own custom MPAA rating? I guess he's claimed his place in history, then.
