since you like sports movies, i'm wondering if you have ever seen "brian's song"
Oh, you mean the movie about the football player Brian Piccolo, i have seen it at least twice.  a real tear-jerker.  James Caan played Piccolo in the movie.
man, you're not kidding.  no one who sees that movie can avoid crying.  as i recall, it  was a really good movie about a man dying of cancer.
Yes, Piccolo, a white man, becomes very good friends with his roommate, Gayle Sayers, a Black man  who was played in the movie by Billy Dee Williams.
that's right.  of course Sayers was a superstar, and Piccolo had to struggle just to make the team.  But he did make the team due to his dedication.
Some people who have seen the movie might forget that the title of the movie came from Piccolo's college team's "fight song."  unfortunately i can't remember what college Piccolo went to, but as a rookie on the Bears, he had to stand up on a table and sing it.
Oh, i have to admit i had forgotten that.  Yes he stands right up on a table and sings the song with all his teammates laughing like crazy.
a big part of that movie was when Sayers got seriously injured and Piccolo motivated him in his recovery from a leg injury.
that's right.  when Sayers got injured, as i recall, Piccolo replaced him in the lineup, knowing that when Sayers recovered, Piccolo would revert to backup status.
Yes.  and despite knowing that he would go back to the bench when Sayers, returned, Piccolo was very diligent in helping Sayers recover.
And the two became more than friends; they became almost like brothers who got a long very well and enjoyed their whole experience as N.F.L. running backs.
Do you remember the part when Sayers was honored for his exploits but  chose to talk about Piccolo, rather than himself, at the speech?
I think I do remember.  Piccolo was very ill by then and Sayers said, "I love Brian Piccolo."  I mean anyone who didn't have tears in their eyes at that must have no feelings at all.
Was "brian's song" a television movie? I don't know if it was ever in the theatres.
I"m pretty sure it never was in the theatres.  ABC television made it a tradition, at least for a while, to broadcast it near Thanksgiving every year.
Oh, i had forgotten the Thanksgiving tradition of showing the movie.  The thing about that movie was despite the sad outcome, it had some real funny parts.
thank goodness for that.  it was such a tragic story that without the humor it would have been almost unwatchable.
It was really much more than a football movie, it was about two men who were roommates in the days when Blacks and Whites simply were not roommates, things were different back then.  but these 2 guys were indeed roommates and that was a big part of the film.
right.  that, and of course, the fact that there was no miracle...Piccolo dies at a very young age.  A heartbreaking story, and sadly, a true story.
I'm glad we talked about this movie.  Caan is widely known for his role in "the Godfather," but he should also be recognized for his role in this movie.  good talking to you.
