So if I'm going to do this John Carpenter thing, where do I start? Do I just do them in sequence?
I mean, you could. Lay 'em out on a graph, and the general trend is that the later they get the worse they get.
What do I really need to hit, then? The Thing, presumably; Halloween...
Those are highlights, right. Funny thing is, you're going to think of horror, but Carpenter has done just about every genre in the book, often one right after another.
Is his non-horror stuff... good, at all?
Some of it! You need to understand that every movie he's done, with few exceptions, has been painfully underfunded and produced under crippling creative conditions.
One of those situations, huh. Like Orson Welles, Terry Gilliam?
More so, if you can believe it. He had a period where Hollywood considered him potentially bankable, but even then his interesting stuff was mostly independent and scraped together out of dirt and spit.
Dude, I'm already sold. Just give me some names and explain.
Okay, so Halloween and The Thing you know; those are just all-time classics of cinema. Classics of Carpenter can get a little weirder -- like, say, Big Trouble in Little China.
I've heard of that. I... don't know what it is.
Even if you watch it five times, you won't be much the wiser. Kurt Russell is a truck driver who stumbles into a magical cult in San Francisco's Chinatown and satirically Joe Americas all over the place.
Sounds... interesting. He Joe Americas around, you say.
I mean, he puts on an intentionally dubious drawl and acts like the dumb older brother of Ash from Evil Dead. And gets hit a lot by people smarter and more skilled than he.
So it's kind of a weird satire of American action movies?
That's exactly what it is. And it's gleeful about how utterly dumb it is.
Sounds like a change from The Thing, yes. Kurt Russell aside. Is he basically to Carpenter what Johnny Depp is to Tim Burton?
Yes. And Carpenter's equivalent to Burton's Danny Elfman is, uh, John Carpenter. His scores are like his films: no-budget, absurdly simple, yet fascinating and effective.
Didn't expect the Orson Welles analogy to go so far. So he's a real, genuine auteur then.
There's no other obvious box to stick him in, so I'd say very much yes.
