I need to find another movie to watch! I am constantly watching "Interstellar" by Christopher Nolan.
That movie was absolutely fascinating! It doesn't sound like I've seen it as many times as you but I enjoyed it.
Yeah, when it was released I went and saw it in Imax. It made the movie so much more enjoyable.
I was unable to see it at a theater but I did see it on DVD.
I learned a lot about our universe watching this movie and I am a huge fan of Christopher Nolan and Jessica Chastain.
I have seen the majority of Christopher Nolan movies and he really does a great job with his movies. I am looking forward to Dunkirk coming out soon.
Man, that looks like another great movie and one I will definitely go see in theaters.
This movie takes place in World War II. Its another war movie but the is a genre I like to watch.
Saving Private Ryan, Full Metal Jacket, Lone Survivor and American Sniper are some of my favorite war movies.
Those all have been great movies in general and "Dunkirk" should be just as good!
Well, That movie wont be out for a while but I finally got to see "La La Land"
What did you think?
Wonderfully done, great music, great actors. I can see why this movie won so many awards this year.
I agree with that. I didnt see anyone else beating Emma Stone for best actress this year at the Academy Awards.
I thought Ryan Gosling would win as well but that doesnt take away from how great this movie was overall.
Yeah I really enjoyed how Emma Stone played a struggling actress named Mia. The scenes where she went into audition seemed to be spot on with what I would imagine that experience to be!
She has come a long way since her first movie appearance in Superbad. I think she has a great career ahead
Yeah and I didnt know Ryan Gosling knew how to play the piano but he sure learned how and pulled it off quite well!
The summer season for movies has started. This is a part of the year I always look forward to and this weekend I will be going to see "Baby Driver."
Let me know what you think of that movie. I have never missed a Jamie Foxx movie. I will let you know what I think of the new Transformers movie as well since I will be seeing that on Friday.
