Which past non-divisional rivalry do you wish could be reignited?
Packers-Cowboys used to be vicious
Honestly, now that Elliot and Prescott are showing signs of being something special, I'm feeling it again. Still nowhere near the Seahawks rivalry, but it could get there.
49ers and Cowboys is another one
I kinda miss having a rivalry with the Colts, it looked like Luck was going the same way of Manning when we played in the playoffs two years in a row, but the last two seasons the Colts regressed pretty hard.
I've said before it wasn't a colts-pats rivalry, it was a Manning-Brady rivalry, and it just transferred to the Broncos. For some reason people tried to say I was just salty about it.. when at that point the Patriots had won the last 3 games by a combined 90 points or something ridiculous like that.
The Patriots and Colts were rivals long before Brady and Manning. You do know they used to be in the same division, right? That rivalry goes back to like the 60's.
That doesn't mean they were rivals. People pointed out how "funny" it was that their rivalry didn't start until the colts left the division constantly back before 2011 when Peyton left.  Are the bills rivals with the titans because they were in the same AFL division?
The Pats-Colts rivalry was born when Willie McGinest stopped Edgerrin James at the 1. The Pats-Colts rivalry died when Griff Whalen snapped the ball to Colt Anderson.
From a non-bias standpoint, what's the best overall season in NFL history?
2011-12 was a season for the ages. There were lots of great playoff games and couple blowouts. Saints vs 49ers, Steelers vs Broncos, Giants - Packers, Giants - 49ers, Ravens - Patriots, Giants Patriots  Even the blowouts were fun, Brady had like 5 TD passes before halftime vs the Broncos.
Brees also set the single season pass yardage record that year, which Peyton obviously broke (by one yard actually) in 2013.
And only missed out on MVP by Rodgers having one of the best QB seasons of all time, throwing 45 touchdowns and 6 interceptions with 122.5 passer rating.
And Eli was the only super bowl winning qb to throw for 4900 yards in the season when he won the Super Bowl.
I'm just waiting for Jameis Winston to win MVP this next season so every fucking NFCS QB has an MVP but the actual best QB in the division's history.
I'm with this guy this year has a very special place in my heart for some reasons. But jesus, if Tebowmania wasn't fantastic.
Tebowmania is one of my favorite moments in NFL history
I get it. He's not a good passer and everyone is amazed by the attention he got during that time. But he was winning games in crazy ways. Of course it's not sustainable to win with a guy who passes like that, but he does have a particular set of skills that helped him win games in exciting ways.
Having the best defense in the league and an easy schedule helped him win games.
Uh, we definitely didn't have the best defense in the league that year. A lot of things contributed to Tebowmania: luck, Matt Prater, clutch defense, etc., but you can't overlook the fact that we were coming off a 4-12 season and were 1-4 when he took over, and we ended up winning the division and a playoff game with Tebow.
