When you think of Kurt Russell movies, is there one that comes to mind?
I like to think of the younger Kurt Russell, Escape from New York.
It has a few cheesy lines, and a limo car that has chandliers attached to the out side of the car for decoration.
He was called snake, and everyone knew him from reputation only.  He fought and ran all over New York.
There was another movie the Kurt Russell stars in where he wears an eye patch.
It was Captain Ron, with Martin Short and Mary Kay Place.
Martin Short and Mary Kay Place are married with two children.  His great uncle died and left them a boat that is not in the best shape.
Oh, yes.  Kurt Russell is a scruffy looking islander that Martin Short hired to help him sail the boat it back to the states.
The entire movie was good, but one of my favorites is when it seems like they are getting the hang and learning about the boat, Martin gets knocked off and someone yells "man over board" while captain ron states it can happen to anyone.
One of the favorites that I remember is when Martin and Mary are in the shower together and the door gets blocked closed with them inside by the mop. Captain ron has to help them out.
Do you have any other Kurt Russell movies that you liked to watch?
The classic movie of all for Kurt Russell in my opinion is Tombstone with Val kilmer, Sam Elliot and Bill Paxton.
This is the western where Wyatt Earp and his brothers plus Doc Holiday take on the red sash gang.
Yes.  Everyone has always seen Wyatt Earp as a peace keeper and law abiding.
What started the fight with the red sash gang in the movie for the Earp brothers?
It started when the sherriff of the town was shot by the leader of the red sash gang and no justice was made.  So the older brother Sam Elliott character stepped in.
What was your favorite scene in the movie?
It has to the O.K. corral scene.  Gun fighters standing feet away from each other.  Good vs Evil and everyone is at the ready any second to pull their guns.
My favorite scene involves Doc holiday.
Where he is talking to Johnny who wants to attack Wyatt earp.  Doc stands casually but a gun ready behind his back, telling Johnny "I'll be your Huckelberry."
