You ever have any movies that you liked so much seeing them once wasn't good enough you want to just see them again?
Sure thing.  The Bodyguard movie with Kevin Costner and Whitney Houston sure was a good movie.
Yeah he was a former secret service agent.  He was haunted by not being there when Reagan was shot.
He became her bodyguard after many threats on her life and some invasion incidents.
She had a bodyguard in Tony but needed more protection than he was able to do.
Kevin hooked her up with the latest security technology.  Upgraded all over the place.
Yeah it cost a bundle and he taught the driver how to evade and high speed driving. In the limo.
And her sister was jealous hearted, she wanted Kevin but he did not like her like that.
Whitney liked him and she had a tryst with him.  Kevin realized he could not protect her right if they were romantically involved and backed off'
They went to his fathers house in the mountains by a lake to relax and unwind.  But killers cut them off by disabling cars and phones and attacked at night.
Her young son went off in the motorboat and Kevin dived off of the dock to get him off the boat.  Whitney thought he was crazy.
Then the boat blew up.  It would have killed her son.
That night one of the bad guys got in the house.  He shot her sister mistaking her for Whitney.
After she had  confessed to Kevin of being the one who hired a hit man to kill Whitney.
She was jealous of Whitney being a star and really hated her own sister.
They  had a funeral for the sister.  Not much came out about the plot.  They tried to get her again at an award ceremony.
Kevin saw the hit man disguised as a cameraman and dove in front of her on stage just as she was shot at.
Kevin took the bullet meant for her.  He then shot the killer before he passed out.
He recovered and got another man to take his place as he loved her and needed a professional yo not be distracted by her.romance.
They had a lovely kiss as she got on the plane in the end.  Ans she kept Tony as her other bodyguard.
