What did you do last night?
Oh, I just sat home on the couch watching tv.
What were you watching?
A movie I've watched a dozen times, The Longest Yard with Adam Sandler.
I'm not really a big Adam Sandler fan. He seems kind of annoying sometimes, and not really that funny.
Oh, I agree. I'm not a big fan either. I just like The Longest Yard because of the movie plot.
Because the prisoners get one over on the guards?
Not so much that, because you know in real life, prisoners often have horrible behavior, and guards are just there to do their jobs.
What do you like about the plot then?
I like how all these prisoners, guys who you would normally think of as not nice people, come together and care for each other and try to help each other.
Oh, like that scene when the black guys all decide to finally help them?
Yes, and other scenes where the prisoners who are usually mean and selfish, stop and care for each other.
It is a nice theme, that even people who normally wouldn't be nice to others, change and act in a civil caring manner to the people around them.
I actually shed a couple tears when they show the guys gather around Caretaker's coffin and put all the things on top of it.
That is really sad. You hear about people dying in prison, but a lot of times, you think maybe they were somehow to blame and fighting with people.
It kind of emphasizes the fact that sometimes people die in prison and it's not their fault, that they are actually innocent victims.
They have some great characters in this movie. I love all the WWE wrestlers in their roles.
My favorite of course is Burt Reynolds. I've always loved Burt Reynolds. He is such a great actor. Adam Sandler seems to try so hard, kind of too hard, and Reynolds has that great acting skill of being able to deliver lines in a captivating way without seeming to try so hard to portray it.
Burt Reynolds really is one of the great actors. He had such a long successful career.
I loved the Smokey and The Bandit films. Burt Reynolds has such a great laugh that it makes you laugh too.
