Remember early in Russell Wilson's career when he used to go down field and lead block for Marshawn Lynch?
He still tries to run down field and block for his guys. I love the attitude, but it's not exactly something I want to see my franchise QB doing.
Hasselbeck used to do it too. I kind of like the tradition. His most notable was the Beastquake run, but that wasn't nearly the only time he did it.
What's the beast quake run? Never heard of it.
It's not a story Sean Payton would tell you.
unless it's in a big game like the sb. Cam newton didn't go for that ball when someone who wants to win like Wilson or Brady would have dived for it regardless.
Hundred percent, but I'd argue diving on a loose ball is significantly different from blocking much bigger defenders downfield when your block (as the quarterback) really isn't most likely gonna do much. Same sentiment tho so I get your point, I'll never understand cams reaction in the super bowl
Tell that to Drew Brees
I don't exactly know what you're reffering to but I can pretty much guarantee Easy Breesy would dive on a loose ball in the big game
Just saying I think they both take balls. Blocking and diving on a ball. Hats off to any QB that does either. Brees is the man
I wouldn't say Cam is scared to block or take a hit
The broncos rocked him all day. Great day.
He was demoralized. I recall him not having a real challenge that entire year until that game. Every game before that was all smiles and dabs.
That's what made their loss so great and I guess being division rivals
What are some great years for Football fans you can remember?
The 2003 Cowboys have a special place in my heart being I missed the championship years.
Who's the common predicted division winner that you don't see winning their division?
Packers. The NFC north is weird right now. Rodgers will probably carry them tbh, but who knows.
It will be similar to last year in which 9-10 wins will win the division.
The Packers are going to be a lot better, we had injuries early which destroyed us. I see us as a 12-13 win team.
