In general are you a fan of the Star Wars series of movies?
Oh absolutely.  The first Star Wars has a special place in my heart because that was the only movie I remember going to with my father.
Cool, how old were you when that move came out?
That first Star Wars came out in May of 1977, so I would have been 12 then.  Boy, we had never seen anything like that when that movie first came out.
So as a young kid did you have a certain character that you liked best?
Yeah, I was drawn to Han Solo and Chewie, they were such good buddies.  Plus Han was an incorrigible smart-ass, he really amused a 12 year old me.
So through the years have you kept up with all the movies in the franchise?
Yes, I've seen them all.  It boggles the mind to think that I've been watching Star Wars movies for over 35 years now.
Jesus, that makes me feel old when you say it that way.  So were there any low points along the way?
Well I would say that after all the waiting and the hype, the movies that made up the prequel were not my favorites.
That seems to be a common sentiment among you Star Wars geeks.
Yeah, but the more recent movies have really redeemed themselves and made me excited and interested in the franchise again.
Really?  I haven't seen the most recent movies.  Is it the same cast or what?
Well it is largely a new cast of characters, inhabited by actors I was not familiar with before the movie.  But they were all very good in the movie I thought.
Interesting.  Do you remember their names now?
The three main heroes were played by Daisy Ridley, John Boyega, and Oscar Isaac.  And the new bad guy was played by Adam Driver from that HBO show Girls.
So you would recommend that I see this movie?
If you have in the past enjoyed any of the old Star Wars movies, then I would say absolutely.  You will be pleasantly surprised for sure.
Do any of the old cast appear in the movie?
Well I don't want to give away of the fun, but I will say that you will get to run across some of your old favorites from the classics!
