Why does everyone say Fellowship is the worst of the Lord of the Rings movies? It's pretty much the only one that stands alone as a functioning piece of cinema.
Yeah, that's true. It's also just better-made than the sequels.
I remember at the time everyone talking about how The Two Towers was the rare "middle" film that didn't drag in comparison to the surrounding films. But I can think of plenty of examples of other middle films that work, and TTT is just... spinning its wheels most of the time.
It makes sense, when you consider Jackson had planned the whole thing as two movies, and filmed a large part of that, before it was split into three. This is the movie made of pieces trimmed out of the start and the end.
So it's literally just the cuttings of Fellowship and Return of the King, built out into a full movie? Because that's what it feels like.
More or less. And not even that; Jackson had to throw away a lot of stuff he shot for the events covered in the second book, because of liberties he took to compress the story into two movies.
He already took his share of liberties. What the hell is the point of the warg battle, where they pretend to kill off Aragorn?
Yeah, there are a couple of things about that. One is that Jackson is not a very subtle artist, and he was convinced the movie lacked drama because none of the major characters died in it.
What is he, twelve?
Well, he did plan out most of the movie with toys. But, basically, yeah, that's the level he's working at, dramatically.
So what's the other reason for that trainwreck? They'd already shot the footage or something?
That's it exactly; they didn't have a plan, so they just shot people running around in a field, doing action stuff. Then later, they basically made the sequence in the studio by editing together bits and pieces that looked interesting and tying them together with CGI or pick-ups or some ADR.
Seriously? Did the Aragorn idea come before this or after it?
I don't know. But that's why there's so much of it. Same thing for Helm's Deep; they just shot in the mud, at night, for, like, a month, and then tried to make something out of all the footage they had.
Did they throw any away? Because... that's kind of interminable.
Oh, they threw away a ton. Originally Arwen was supposed to be there, fighting alongside the Fellowship. They had to edit around that.
Wait, what? Is that why all those elves show up for no reason?
Yeah, he had to leave some of that thread in because there already were elves in the background of so many shots and he wasn't going to go back and reshoot that nightmare.
So... after he got the third movie it sounds like he later tried to pull closer to the book, but he was stuck with the footage he had, and had to make the best of the changes he couldn't dial back?
That's basically the story of this whole project, yeah. Then the changes took on lives of their own, and to justify them he had to keep building on them in the next movie -- and even referencing some of that stuff in the Hobbit trilogy.
