What's your favorite Edgar Wright movie?
It has to be between Scott Pilgrim vs. The World and Shaun of the Dead.
Have you seen Baby Driver yet? That's Edgar's most recent.
I want to watch it! I haven't had time to go the theaters yet, but I've heard so many great reviews on it.
I haven't seen it yet either but I'm looking forward to it. I heard the stunt driving and driving scenes are phenomenal.
Which movies of his are your favorites?
Same as your choices. I think I have Scott Pilgrim vs. The World as his top movie for me, then Shaun of the Dead, and I really loved The World's End too!
I forgot about The World's End. That's the movie with Simon Pegg and Nick Frost right?
It's the latest of the three with both of those guys! Don't forget Hot Fuzz, and you already mentioned Shaun of the Dead.
Didn't he call that collection the Cornetto Trilogy?
He did. It's really cool if you know why and how he linked them together and called it that.
Why did he call those three films the Coretto Trilogy?
Well it started as a silly joke since Simon Pegg noted Cornetto ice cream was a hangover cure for Nick's character in Shaun of the Dead.
I never knew that!
So, Edgar decided to base the movies around this theme, the flavors of Cornetto. Shaun of the Dead features strawberry flavor to signify the bloody and gory elements, Hot Fuzz had blue to signify the Police elements, and finally The World's End featured green mint chocolate chip flavor representing the little green men and the science fiction element.
That makes so much sense now! The World's End when the reveal that the aliens had taken over the humans in the town was such a surprise!
I think that's why I really loved The World's End because of how crazy it got after that.
Edgar Wright is a genius. I have to go watch Baby Driver and see how he did with that.
His last project was The World's End in 2013 so it's been some years since he's been back at it.
It's been too long of a wait for his new movie! I might have to just go this weekend!
