Do you like Jackie Chan movies?
Oh yes, he is really funny. His movies always make me laugh.
There's a new trailer out for an upcoming film he is doing with Pierce Brosnan.
What's the movie called?
The Foreigner. It's a lot different than Jackie's other movies. He has a more serious role. He plays a London restaurant owner trying to find out who killed his daughter in an IRA bombing.
Why would they be investigating an IRA bombing when London and Europe are having bombing situations from ISIS, not the IRA?
The movie is based on the 1992 novel The Chinaman.
Oh, that makes more sense. But it kind of seems like poor timing, considering how many people have been affected by terrorism over there.
Well, the plot is trying to discover who was responsible, so it kind of has a relevance to today. They surely couldn't make a movie about ISIS bombing someone, because that would be too painful for people who were affected to watch, and make the theatres a target for terrorists.
I guess. Does Jackie Chan kick butt in the movie?
He does have some fight scenes where he does some sparring. He said the fans want to see him fighting, plus it keeps him in shape.
Isn't he getting kind of old now?
He's 63. He does have a 17 year old daughter, so he said he can relate to the emotion in the film.
But he still does some fight scenes? That's pretty awesome.
Some of the scenes, like the one in the trailer, they had to use stunt doubles though. The director said they would get in too much trouble if he got hurt.
I heard he has been hurt a lot doing those stunts he does. One time he fell out of a tree and cracked his skull. He's broken all kinds of bones.
I read once they can't get insurance on movies where he does his stunts, because it's so dangerous and he's been hurt so many times.
That's probably why they are being careful with him in this film, and using stunt doubles for dangerous stunts.
I'm definitely going to go see this movie, because he always has been great at portraying characters in films.
I like how he always tries to act in a morally responsible way. He doesn't play villians, and he's set up schools for kids, and he even made them take the F word out of a Rush Hour movie.
