I saw the trailer for the new movie coming out, "Pitch Perfect 3." I can't wait to see it.
I loved Pitch Perfect, and of course Pitch Perfect 2 wasn't quite as good, but I really liked when Fat Amy was singing to Bumper.
That was hilarious. There was an article about the movie that said this will probably be the last movie in the series.
I guess it would be hard to continue since they've supposedly graduated, unless maybe they became college professors.
That's a good idea! The article said we will find out why Amy is called Fat Amy, and it's a tearjerker.
Uh oh. I really like Amy. Rebel Wilson did a great job playing her.
The movie is going to show the Bellas traveling all over the world.
It must be like when they did the world championships in "Pitch Perfect 2."
There's a new cast member, Ruby Rose from "Orange Is The New Black."
I don't know her, but I want to see all the old Bellas.
They have some wacky scenes, like a synchronized swimming pool scene.
It sounds like something Aubrey would organize! She was hilarious. That barfing scene was so funny!
I know, I don't think anyone could ever forget that. I wonder how she managed to make it travel so far?
Special effects maybe?
One of the cast members who plays Flo said she thinks there could always be a possibility of a fourth movie as long as people wanted it. She said the group of girls love each other and have become like family.
I just hope Jessica and Ashley actually get to talk in this movie. I really hated the way they were never given any lines.
I know what you mean. In the first movie, when they were all sitting and telling something personal about themselves, they were the only two who didn't get to say anything.
They are called "The Insignificant Ones" by fans and the other girls, and that seems so hurtful.
Maybe this third movie will be different since it might be the last one, and they actually get some lines.
You know what would be wickedly funny? If they had a fourth movie with just them as college professors teaching music, and they explained to their classes that they liked to talk a lot because in college they could never get a word in edgewise around the other girls!
