Are you excited about any of the new movies in the Marvel Universe?
Yeah, I'm really excited to see Spiderman Homecoming and the upcoming Avengers movie.
I think the movies in the universe have gotten better and better with each new movie because that allows for more characters to cross over into other movies.
I agree. The fact that Iron Man plays such a big role in Spiderman Homecoming is really great.
Do you think they might be going for too much too fast? They might overload the audience with too many characters and backstories.
True, but I think the writers have done a fantastic job of integrating these characters without the audience needing to go back and watch their specific movie in order to understand who they are.
That still leaves the problem of having too many characters, though.
I think most of the movies do a good job of restraining themselves in that regard. Even though it's also Marvel, the other side of the Marvel Universe movies don't seem to be succumbing to the same issue X-men started to have.
I agree, X-men just seemed like they wanted to jam in as many characters as humanly possible in their movies. It was getting to the point where they were annoying audiences with brief cameos of beloved characters.
Yeah. like Gambit in the Wolverine movie or Venom in Spiderman 3. I didn't like how we only got a taste of those characters on the big screen.
What's your favorite movie in the Marvel universe so far?
It would have to be Iron Man 3. It showed us another side of Tony Stark, was a wonderful story and had some great action.
Who is your favorite character in the Marvel movies?
I'd still have to stick with Iron Man. He's evolved a lot over the course of the movies and while he's made some bad choices he's a very interesting and compelling character.
What do you think of the special effects on the Marvel movies?
I think they've been, more or less, incredible, especially as time has gone on. I still can't be fully convinced of the Hulk for some reason, but it's really amazing.
Do you think they rely on CGI too much in these movies?
A little, yes, but with this material you almost have a necessity for CGI. Practical effects would take forever and would likely be incredibly expensive.
Do you think Hulk would work better as practical effects?
We've seen what they've done with the Hulk and the Thing as practical effects and they somehow look even worse than the CGI. I think CGI is the way to go, but they need to work with it more to make it more realistic.
