Did you read about Michelle Rodriguez posting on Instagram that she might have to quit the Fast and Furious movies?
No, why on earth would she have to quit?
She said if they don't show some love to the women on the next movie, she might have to leave.
What does that mean, "show some love?"
She didn't elaborate. But people pointed out how it seems wrong to say the movies don't value the women.
Charlize Theron had a huge main part in the current movie I know, and the women in the guy's lives always have lots of lines and feature in the action.
They even drive the cars just as good as the guys do, it's not like they put them in the passenger seat and act like women can't drive.
Do you think maybe she was jealous because her part wasn't as big as Charlize Theron's?
I think she has kind of a big head and thinks she's a bigger celebrity than she is. Most news articles about her are just about who she's dating.
The movies are really guy flicks, meant to appeal to guys, and so naturally the action and lines would go more to the guys. But I never thought the movies were disrespectful to the women. They get to play heroes and villians, they get to drive fast cars, and they are seen as precious to the men.
Maybe she's hinting for more money. But the guys do have bigger parts, more lines, more action scenes. They deserve more pay.
I think she should consider herself lucky and be quiet. Those movies have set her up for life financially.
Especially for something like the movie business, where so many people don't make it, or don't make a lot, or do bit parts forever but don't get the big roles.
Exactly. Can you imagine how many female actresses would love to have had those opportunities.
She did say it had been a good ride and she was grateful to the fans and studio for the opportunity. But it sounded like lip service so people wouldn't complain she was ungrateful. Well, that didn't help it sound any less ungrateful.
Can you imagine how much money she has made thanks to those movies?
I looked up her earnings. She's listed number four for the top five Fast and Furious earners. She made 5 million for Furious 6, and Paul Walker and Vin Diesel each made 15 million. Her net worth is estimated at 34 million.
Oh my God. She has no reason to complain. It sounds like she's the one that needs to show some love, not the other way around
I know. Think of all the actresses waiting tables inbetween jobs who would love to have had that kind of opportunity.
I wouldn't be sad if they wrote her out.
