Did you ever watch the Harry Potter series?
Yeah I've seen it, I had to watch them when they came out because I read the books as a kid.
What did you think about them? I really liked them.
I thought they were cool, I had some nitpicks though with differences from the books and things they changed.
I can understand that. It can be tough with book adaptations.
Yeah and I can sort of understand it with the way they want it to look better visually, but you're changing important things!
This is why it's so tough to watch movies that were adapted from books. Which parts did you have the most trouble with?
Well they made the Death Eaters fly around in giant trails of smoke, what is that? Was that apparating?
Yeah I think that's what it was supposed to be. Is that not how it was in the books?
No, they just heard a popping noise and appeared and disappeared. They couldn't fly or cast spells while doing it.
Oh okay, yeah I didn't even notice or know about that. The scenes looked great visually though.
That's true but what about that romance with Ginny that just came out of nowhere? The books had been building up to it, the movies just sprang it on us.
It did seem kind of sudden, and I say that as someone who never even read the books. You're definitely right about that.
I think part of the problem is that they changed directors too often. Chris Columbus did some and then it switched at some point.
Continuity in some cases seems to be a problem with these projects. How did you feel about The Hunger Games?
I liked those movies, I thought they were much truer to the subject material than some other things. I thought it was very well executed.
And it looked really good and also has a lot of re-watchability. I think Katniss was a great protagonist.
We need more female main characters in movies these days, for sure. I think we're getting better, but not quite all the way there yet.
You've got a good point there. I liked the new Ghost Busters.
Yeah I think a lot of people had problems with it for the wrong reasons. As a standalone, it really was a great movie.
