What kinds of movies have you seen in theaters lately?
None, actually, I don't really go to the movies often.
What?? Why not? I go probably once a month!
It's much simpler to watch films from home, I suppose. Besides, I'm in no rush to see new releases or anything.
Hmm, that's a shame, the experience at the movies is definitely worth it in my opinion.
I understand, I just don't like dealing with having to go out and spend all that money just to sit in an uncomfortable chair and watch something I could see in my own home later.
Well, fair enough I suppose. Do you use Netflix to watch movies or do you order them online or what?
I do use Netflix, but I also like to buy them from Amazon on occasion. Netflix is definitely simpler for me right now. Truth be told I'm not that big of a movie person.
I've always been passionate about film so that boggles me. Netflix is good, but they don't have a lot of the things I really want.
Really?? I've been nothing but surprised at their catalog size!
Yeah, but some of the more specific titles I really like are DVD only or missing altogether.
I haven't come across that situation yet. What kinds of films do you watch?
Admittedly yeah, they're more cult/obscure, but I like all kinds of movies. I guess Netflix has more well known things too, it's just that odds are I've already seen them tons of times or own them in person.
How cult can you get with movies really? I mean, I've seen Eraserhead and that's about as crazy as I can get.
It gets waaaay more cult than Eraserhead, trust me. So many weird art films that are kind of terrible and kind of awesome at the same time.
Why would you want to watch something that's terrible?? Even the smallest bit?
That's part of the fun. Have you ever gotten a laugh out of something that's really dumb, like on youtube, or a song or something?
I have, on occasion, so I guess I can see what you mean. It's just beyond my experience.
Yep. A perfect example is The Room which is popular enough so that you might recognize it. Have you seen it?
"YOU'RE TEARING ME APART LISA!!!"
