Did you hear about that new movie, "The Book of Henry?"
No, what's it about?
It's about a really bright kid trying to solve all kinds of problems around him. But the buzz over the movie is all about how awful it is.
There's a lot of bad movies out there if you ask me. What don't people like about it?
Actually people HATE it. Critics are having a field day ripping it apart. And their reasons for why it's so bad go on and on.
Who's starring in the movie?
There's a couple well known people in it, Naomi Watts plays the kid's mom, Sarah Silverman is her friend, the little girl from Dance Moms, Maddie Ziegler, is the neighbor girl. It also has a director who has done some good work- Colin Trevorrow who did Jurrasic World. But none of them are enough to save it from being a train wreck.
Wow. So who gets the blame for it being such a bad movie?
That's what's funny. The director said maybe the fact he did two things that he cared about, that somehow his visability would shine a spotlight that he hadn't considered.
What the heck does that mean?
Exactly. Trying to talk around in lofty circles the way Hollywood does to avoid saying in simple terms, apparently it's awful and people hate it. They really HATE it, huh?
They really HATE it, huh?
Yes, and the director said he couldn't understand why there was such :vitriolic dislike" for the film.
So in other words, he's clueless that it stinks, and is whining how can people be so mean.
Apparently, the problem with the movie was the plot and the writing. The critics said they take too many things, like a child abuser, terrible disease, fake knowing of all things by the kid, and use thenm just for shock value, and to manipulate the sudience's feelings.
Oh. People hate when they feel manipulated, as if they are being forced to feel something.
Yes, and those are all sad scenarios, but one critic compared it to- "what we see is it is all a crock, people moving human situations around like pieces on a chessboard.."
That seems to signal really bad directing.
It does, because even if you had a good story, which this doesn't, if you portray it badly, the audiennce doesn't get it, or doesn't like or believe it.
So the director is to blame a great deal for the fiasco, but says he doesn't understand why, and blames his celebrity with another film as casting harsh expectations. Talk about a denial of responsibility.
