Did you see The Revenant?
Well not yet, I just know that it is a great movie. Who was the director?
The Mexican Alejandro G. Iñarritu, he did a great job, and finally Leonardo DiCaprio won his first Oscar. I think he is an awesome actor. What do you think about it?
Yes, he is, he has had great performances, I think he deserves it and even he should have won it before. Most people agree it is a great movie.
Yes, it is, I agree with them, I have read many reviews and what people say is that this movie is impressive, full of visual effects, beautiful photography and a good story.
Where was this movie filmed? There was any USA location?
It was filmed in Canada, USA and Argentina. I remember Calgary, Montana and Tierra de Fuego in Argentina.
Argentina, really? why to go there if they were here in North America?
Well, what I know is that there was not enough amount of snow as they needed at some locations and they had to go there or something like that.
Wow, impressive. can you imagine what implies to have to move a production team from North america to the southernmost country in south America?
Yes, that is crazy, Iñarritu said he will never again make another movie like this, he said: “I am a crazy man, but not stupid”.
Yes, I agree. How many Oscars did this movie win?
It got three: best director, best actor and best cinematography. It didn't win the Oscar for best picture, amazing.
Yes, I thought the winner would be La La Land but it was Moonlight, Have you seen it? I have not seen it yet?
I have not seen it either, but I want to. I like coming-of-age drama films, do you like them?
Yes, I like them too. Do you think Forrest Gump is one of those movies?
Well, I am not sure, He jumps from Kid to Adult and those movies are characterized for the growth of a protagonist from youth to adulthood. I am not sure.
That is a good point, but no matter what, Forrest Gum is one of my favorite movies ever.
Yes, you are right, that is one of my favorites too. Would you like to go to the movies next week
Sure, just let me know when. It will be nice.
