I watched such an interesting movie last night. I'm still thinking about it now!
What did you watch? I need some new movie recommendations!
Well, I watched this really interesting movie called, Before I Fall. It stars Zoey Deutch, Halston Sage, and this young actor I've seen before but can't recall his name.
Oh, I really like Zoey Deutch. Did you know she's Lea Thompson's daughter? You remember her right, from Back to the Future, Howard the Duck, a lot of great 80's movies.
Yes! I did know that. Ever since being introduced to her in Vampire Academy and learning a bit about her background I've been trying to catch all her films. She's doing great and appearing in a lot of notable movies currently!
So tell me about this movie, Before I Fall!
That's right, well let me tell you, this movie is quite the mind bender. It'll keep you guessing how things will play out and it will definitely entertain you the whole way through.
Is this a drama or more of a mystery thriller? I haven't caught one of those in awhile.
This is a little of both, I'd also add in fantasy to it. It's based on a popular novel by Lauren Oliver, and this story basically centers around a teen girl who basically has to live the same day over and over again!
That sounds amazing! I'm not too familiar with the novel but I do find that subject and theme to be really appealing! Don't spoil anything but was the acting up to par throughout?
I thought it was adequate to be honest, but I was really impressed with Zoey's performance. She had the most to work with and she really chewed up the scenes well. I could feel every struggle she went through and I you just have to root for her character. She goes through quite the character growth as the movie goes on.
Well, I already was intrigued by the concept and idea behind this story, and you add Zoey to this mix, I'm sold! I think I'll give it a try.
Definitely give it a watch. I don't think you'll be disappointed. I thought they handled things really well. Much better than previous young adult novels adapted novels.
I was definitely disappointed in some of the past ones, and we're not going to mention the vampires and werewolves one, you know what I'm referring to.
Oh, it's certainly head and shoulders better than that. It starts out kind of cliche and routine, but stick with it, as it shifts gears pretty quickly and really gets you engaged.
Who else is in the movie besides Zoey?
I recognize Halston Sage, as she has a pretty big role in this movie. She's been in a handful of movies too but more as a supporting character. She's usually the girlfriend character, or friend of the main character. Pretty girl, and has great screen presence.
The name sounds familiar but I can't put a face to it.
Off the top of my head, she was in Paper Towns, from a year ago, as well as some other fun movies. I really like her too and see a promising future for her.
Okay, I think I know who you're talking about and I agree, she's got talent! That's a a good pairing. I'll give Before I Fall a watch this weekend!
