Have you watched the movie Miss Sloane?
No I haven't, what's it about and who stars in it?
Well the movie stars Jessica Chastain and there's a host of other actors you might recognize. It's a very good movie.
I love Jessica Chastain! Zero Dark Thirty was such a good movie, how would you compare it to Miss Sloane?
I really enjoyed Miss Sloane, I think I prefer and liked it better than Zero Dark Thirty.
That's interesting! Jessica was nominated for an Oscar for Zero Dark Thirty so that's saying some high praise!
Oh, I know, and I thought her performance in that was great, but I thought her performance in Miss Sloane was on another level!
Alright, you've sold me on it, tell me a little more about what Miss Sloane, but no spoilers!
Well, in Miss Sloane, Jessica plays a high profile political lobbyist, she's just left her firm and joined a new one to take on a new campaign.
I love political thrillers, you've got my attention!
The challenges she faces going from this big firm to a smaller one is evident, but her character is so bold, confident, and cold that she revels in these challenges.
Okay, I think my attention is definitely rising!
Alright, so the conflict she starts encountering becomes quite personal as her opposition is basically the pro-gun lobbyist, so you can imagine how heated things will be getting.
Oh this is definitely sounding like it's right up my alley.
Right, and so, when they start trying to dig and attack her character, it becomes a big chess match, and let me tell you this movie is not lacking any substance in tension or punch!
This sounds really good! I'm going to give it a shot, you sold me on it.
I'm glad! Tell me what you think once you've caught it, oh and another recent movie I watched that was amazing, was John Wick Chapter 2!
I saw that last week! John Wick 2 was really good. The action and fight sequences were so top notch.
Tell me about it! Hollywood needs to get back to good choreographed fight scenes like this, and quit the quick choppy edit ones.
Agreed! Nobody wants to suffer a headache from those bad fight sequences. Thanks for the recommendation. I'm going to check out Miss Sloane!
