You like mystery movies, right?
Yeah, is that what this is?
Yes, I think "The Hateful Eight" doesn't really capturing what is going on well in the movie- they're all actually distrustful of one another, and they audience gets to feed on that mistrust.
The Mistrustful Eight- it sounds like a bootleg movie; I would not watch it.
Me either. The Hateful Eight is worth it though, because the clues and smoking guns are so obvious and plentiful that your heart is on edge throughout the entire movie.
So are there protagonists in the movie?
There are, but it's hard to tell who they are, because everyone of the group of eight has a reason not to trust the other, and you have a reason not to trust them.
You know I like mystery movies like that, so give me an example of one of the clues?
Well, one of the most interesting clues is a piece of candy which Jackson sees on the floor during a casual conversation.
A piece of candy feels like a bit of a stretch.
Well it is not a clue so much as a tool which sets the tone. Jackson sees it lying on the floor and immediately knows that there is something amiss.
Is there not supposed to be candy there?
No, I think it is because the cabin owner is a really neat person, and Jackson sees it out of place, but the candy is just one of many little things which are out of place which Jackson keeps noticing.
That didn't sound too interesting. Give me another one.
There is a really tense scene between Jackson and the Mexican. They're  both outside, and they are prepping things for a coming storm; Jackson starts to test him and make not so subtle accusations.
I bet it felt like someone was going to die in that scene. But it's Jackson, so he probably killed the Mexican, right?
I am not going to spoil it for you, but Jackson's question has multiple, unseen layers to it, and you can tell that in spite of giving the right answer, Jackson learned something important from the conversation and has already made up his mind.
Thank you for not spoiling things for me; I was not even thinking about that-I am just excited to go see the movie.
Well we had better get tickets soon. Our theater is probably going to stop showing it soon, and we will have to go to some rural city with old movie showing if we want to see it on the big screen.
I am free next Saturday if you don't mind seeing it again.
