Sometimes the movie feels a little confusing, or maybe I am just throwing contemporary perceptions on the whole thing.
I heard it is another movie set during the slavery period in America.
Yeah, I think the movie takes place after the civil was of the US had completed, so that could have something to do with it.
So what were the discrpencies?
Well there is one character in particular, the sheriff.  He was a former rough rider who took it upon himself to go out during and after the war to hunt black people.
That makes sense- I can imagine that there were tons of people who were not happy with the outcome.
Yeah, but this guy meets up with Jackson, and there seems to be a lot of animosity between the two of them. Jackson hates him for being a rough rider, and the sheriff hates him for being black.
Do they have a professional relationship?
Sort of, I guess they do. The sheriff is the one who pays out to all bounty hunters, and Jackson is a bounty hunter who is bringing in three claims.
But you think that the hatred they had for each other should have superseded that professional relationship?
It's not just that. The way they acted, I think either of them would have taken the chance to kill the other if they had been given the chance.
Well a sheriff is not just going to kill people, especially someone who is working on the side of the law.
No, but Jackson gave the sheriff at least one legitimate reason as to why he should be dead. But shortly after that reason, it's like everyone forgot it happened.
That sounds like sloppy writing.
Yeah, that is the problem. Everything in this movie builds up to something and creates a reason as to why something might happen, but in this instance, it does not seem to determine their characters in any way.
The movie sounds kind of complicated. I think it may have been too complicated for even Tarantino, so he just had to let something fall to the way side in order to make it work.
That does make sense. There are a lot of social dynamics in play in the movie, and tons of intrigue.
Other than that, would you say that the movie made sense and moved along well?
I would say that was the case generally?
I would be apt to let that slide if everything else made sense. You can make up some reasons in your head as to why it all worked out the way it did.
