ok, Fine well, if I do get the money, and then change the scenery from western Europe to central Europe and southern Russiam then do I have more gore?
Gore...?
Yes. More murderous scenes, chopping heads off, more rapes, more pillaging of the wealth, more burning of the villages, more.. more torment.
Well, I think you can do that with just about any warfare until the very recent ones, even then you could probably find most of that.
So yes. Then that's what it will be,. The epic saga of Mongol horde's devastating escapades into Europe and white man's land because they were fed up with mistreatment in the US.
You're an idiot.
I'm just making sure you're paying attention. The epic saga of the most vile, violent, vicious..
You're copying V.
Yes. Sorry I didn't mean to. Start over. The epic saga of the most violent man who has ever walked the face of the earth, the one who has had the dream of conquering the world since the death of His father, onw who gleed at the thought of raping women and spreading his DNA over so widely, 1 in 200 men descend directly from Kahn himself.
That's a stupid line for a movie. It's a science quote, not a movie line
ugh fine. Then what? I just want to say it's a great epic saga about Khan's violent conquests, and murderous rampages across central Europe and Russia.
I guess why does it have to be Europe and Russia?
Um, duh. you idiot. They;'re white. we get sympathy points from audience all over the world, especially among minority viewers.
That is one diabolically idiotic point. Ok. I'm in.
Finally. Thank you, So we start with brief intro into his life. Bam, his daddy murdered, he had a hard life, but then bam, he make s it big and now he's all, Ima go conquer Europe.
Ok, bam, that is so not what happened. Movie making is about drawing a person into the world you create. No bam. Or bam, but the bam needs to be warranted.
What did Russians look like in 12th century?
It was dominated by Novgorod dynasty, but pretty far up north. The rest of what is now Russia was occupied by the Mongols, which the Rus do not get rid of until Ivan the great. You now, come to think of it. this can be a great movie, but not about Mongols, But about the Rus
Rus did get their ass kicked by Mongols with all the head chopping village burning etc?
Yes, but not like you think. The Mongol state and Rus coexisted side by side until the Mongols collapsed after which Rus states began to consolidate. And that Is a great epic saga. I'd pay money to see that.
