Jackson is hilarious in this movie- I know he is not comedy relief, but at times it feels like it, because so much of the rest of the movie is tense.
Jackson as comedy relief? I can't really see that. Was he just funny the way he was funny in Pulp Fiction?
Okay, I think that better describes how he was funny. There were just  more moments in this movie than in Pulp Fiction in which you just wanted to laugh- you know how Jackson loves to monologue in Tarantino films.
So he talks a lot in this movie- that sounds kind of boring.
A lot of Tarantino films are a bunch of talking interspersed with blood. Anyway, there is this one particular scene in which he confronts this high ranking southerner.
Oh lord, this is going to be good.
Yeah, so Jackson's character is a little dubious, and he tells a tall tale or two. He slowly worms his way into a conversation with this man who plainly hated him, and at first it just looks like he is trying to find mutual ground with him.
Let me guess, the old man has a bounty on his head?
No, it turns out that the old man who was questing to a town not far from there was intending to see his son's grave.
Oh my god, did Jackson kill his son? Was his son a bandit or something?
Yes and no, according to Jackson, the man's son was hunting black people and ran into him, so Jackson turned the tables and hunted him.
And then a fight breaks out between him and the old man.
No, and stop interrupting if you want to hear the story.
Geeze, sorry. Go on.
So Jackson marches this guy through the snow, naked and he focused on describing how brutally cold the weather is and how it's making the man's son desperate.
Man, Jackson's character's always seem to be devoid of sympathy.
I know, right? So he makes him march naked for two hours, and eventually the son just breaks down, gives up on living and most anything else, but he does ask for one thing.
What did he ask for?
The son asked Jackson for a blanket, just a blanket because it was so cold. Jackson made him trade his dignity to get one.
Oh my god, what do you mean by that? Now we definitely have to see the movie.
