Have you seen Fantastic Beast and Where to find them?
No, isn't that the one set in the wizarding world of Harry Potter but set before the books take place?
Yeah, I love how they are expanding the wizarding world so we see other people and places.
I like that they are making the movie about the 'author' of one of the Textbooks they have to read, but what do you mean about other places.
Oh, didn't you know. It takes place in New York, America. So we get to see the culture difference between England and USA.
I guess I did hear something about that, now that you mentioned it. Something about non-wizards being called no-mag instead of muggles.
yeah, that is one of the differences that people have been talking about but I think the bigger differences is that in America wizards and witches aren't allowed to marry or even be friends with the no-mag just so the secret of magic won't leak. Isn't that crazy?!
Wow, really! Man, that is rough.
Yeah, I guess this is one of the reasons grindelwald is trying to 'liberate' witches and wizards, and the threat of him is really real throughout the movie.
yikes, so I am assuming there is a romantic plot concerning a no-mag and a witch or wizard.
Of, course there is but I am not going to tell you anymore about it. However that is not the main plot of the movie. Newt, (the main character) comes to New York for some business carrying a suitcase filled with magic creatures. The suitcase is magical so it is bigger on the inside then outside, obviously.
obviously
Well, the creatures keep trying to escape and because of a mix-up with someone else's suitcase they do. Since the security is really tight due to grindelwald  and something destroying the city (before the creatures escaped) Newt has add trouble collecting all his creatures again.
Wow, sounds intense.
It is, but just seeing all those amazing creatures is super worth it.
I was always amazed at the different creatures Rowling came up with. I really want to see it now.
You, should. It is really good. Infact, let me know when you watch it and I will see it with you.
It is that good that you would watch it again.
Yes, it is that good. You will want to watch it over again as well.
Ok, I now know that this is a must see movie!
