So, what was the last movie you saw in theaters?
The last movie I saw in person was Shin Godzilla (it's a Japanese-made film that had a limited US release).
Oh nice, I really like all those old Godzilla and other kaiju movies!
Yea, me too. This one was actually really interesting and a lot better than the more recent American-made Godzilla movies that have come out in the last decade or so.
So, what was different about this one?
I feel like this one kind of got back to the way the Japanese Godzilla movies were made, and it actually dealt with a lot of real-world issues.
What kind of issues?
Well, one example is that while Japan was trying to fight off Godzilla themselves, other countries around the world are itching to intervene because they're worried about getting attacked themselves. There was a lot that dealt with how events would realistically take place if a country was under attack by something that they couldn't stop.
Oh true, yea I remember reading that a lot of the early Godzilla movies were actually (fairly disguised) political commentary.
Yea, definitely. The whole idea of Godzilla came after World War II and in the wake of Japan having nuclear bombs dropped on their country.
So what else did you like about the film?
Well, it was pretty cool that it was set in a world where they'd never experienced an attack from Godzilla before; so for most of the beginning of the film it's a lot of them trying to figure out what's going on and trying to be cautious about what information people find out before they're sure they understand what's happening.
Yea, that sounds a lot like what a group of scientists or officials would probably need to do in that position.
Exactly, so it's maybe a little slow, but you get sucked into the story because it feels like the real world. They have to deal with nervous officials, a terrified public, and the pain of the memories of how their country was effected by the last major attack on them; our nuclear bombs.
I could see how that realism could bring you into the story.
Yea, and like I said, it is a little slow at times. The way to look at it is this isn't a big Hollywood blockbuster version of Godzilla. This is a "how realistic can we make something so outlandish" kind of movie.
It sounds really interesting; you said it only had a limited release in the US?
Yea, unfortunately I guess they didn't have backers for a larger release.
That's a shame, but I guess it will become more available once it's out on dvd.
I sure hope so; I'll definitely be getting myself a copy as soon as it's out.
