What team in the AFC do you think can beat the Patriots and stop them from another ring?
I think there are two that have a really good chance, Pittsburgh and Oakland.
Those two have the talent to top the AFC, but it also depends on the health of the team and how their meetings during the regular season go.
I know that Roethlisberger is nearing the end of his career because of health reasons, but he is definitely a quarterback who can take Tom Brady.
If he gets on the same page as Antonio Brown, it's touchdowns for days.
Add in their explosive running game with Bell and it's near impossible to stop them once the offense starts clicking.
It's more of the defense that I worry about with Pittsburgh, while I see so many pieces coming together for Oakland.
If Pittsburgh's offense scores a bunch of points, it doesn't really matter how their defense is, much like how the Saints are successful.
Yes, but Oakland is more of a complete package with their young QB talent, dynamic receivers and running back, as well as hungry defense.
I do think Khalil Mack should be a player that Tom Brady worries about because he is younger and more athletic than Tom, a combination that's hard to avoid when dodging sacks.
It's interesting though to see the coaches of those three AFC teams though because they all have a lot of experience.
I'm just not sure that Tomlinson or Del Rio have what it takes to out coach Belichick.
They both have a talented roster though and enough experience playing against Belichick that it may be easier to game plan.
The only thing predictable about Belichick is that he will do whatever it takes to win.
I really noticed that last preseason and beginning of the season when Tom was suspended, both backup quarterbacks executed well against some tough teams.
This is probably why Jimmy Garoppolo's trade stock is so high, even with limited professional tape.
No matter who is at quarterback, the Patriots are tough to beat with Belichick calling the shots.
Their roster also improved this year because Belichick had several good hits during both free agency and the NFL draft.
My guess is that Pittsburgh and Oakland picked up a few good guys that will address their problems and only make them more of a contender.
I would still guess that Patriots make it to the Super Bowl, unless Oakland or Pittsburgh can bring their roster to the next level.
