Do you remember what it was like going to the movies alone when you were a teenager?
Yes, it was a big deal because my mother would never let me see a movie that was rated R (Restricted).
Do you mean you snuck in when you were underage?
Well sometimes I did.  I guess I was big for my age.  I remember seeing some movies that had nudity so I doubt they were rated G or PG.
I remember that too.  I think I saw Carnal Knowledge.  My parents would not have been happy!
Wasn't that with Ann-Margret and Candice Bergen?  I always thought Candice Bergen was gorgeous.  Art Garfunkel was in it too.
I see to remember sneaking out to see Bonne and Clyde.  I doubt it was first run, but I know I wasn't old enough to see it.
I remember seeing that in the theater and that last scene where Faye Dunaway and Warren Beatty were shot up by police was so scary.   Seems pretty tame now.
I remember back then it was a big deal when Midnight Cowboy came out and was nominated for Best Picture. I think it was the only X rated movie to win Best Picture.
That's so funny because I just saw it on TV and it seems pretty mild compared to some of today's movies.  I think Jon Voight's hustler character was just a bit much back then.  Also one of the earliest movies showing homosexuality.
When I was watching Midnight Cowboy on TV, I was thinking Dustin Hoffman always seems to be the same age.  He played Ratso Rizzo in Midnight Cowboy and I swear he seems to be about the same age now though he must be near 80.
Yes, it was so sad seeing his character die on the bus to Florida in that movie.  You were really rooting for him to make it.
It's funny but there is a line in that movie I always think of when I am crossing a busy street and the cars won't stop.  Remember when Ratso hits the hood of the cab and says "I'm walking here!"
LOL...Yes!  That's me too. I swear I think I have actually said that to drivers whizzing past me.
Anyway, I really wish they made more movies that were charcter studies like the old days.  Now it's just animated movies and superhero flicks.
I have heard good things about the new Wonder Woman movie though.  It's directed by a woman too.  Her name is Patty Jenkins.
I guess that's progress at least.  Maybe I need to give these movies more of a chance.  The review say the movie delves into her transformation into Wonder Woman from her childhood.
My daughter saw it and really liked it.  I think maybe having a female director makes a difference.
I heard on TV that they had screenings of Wonder Woman just for females.  Not sure I agree with that.
Well, I guess I can see from a marketing standpoint  But I can imagine how I would feel if there were men only screenings of
