Who's your favorite NFL team?
The Washington Redskins.  Who is yours?
I love the Dallas Cowboys.  I think we're in this season!
The Super Bowl?  I doubt that.
Are you serious!? Did you not see that performace last season by Dak and Zeke?
Yeah, they are good.  But, as usualy with the Cowboys, not good enough to get to the big game.
We beat you guys. Twice, if I'm not mistaken...
But, we had a disconnected team.  I don't think that will happen this season.  Cousins is good and they've beefed up our other areas.
You guys need to get rid of a few people, too. Eitherway, we will do the same thing we did last year with you guys. Win!
I doubt that.  Dak and your RB were new and there was no film on them.  Now, everybody has something to study and find out their quirks...
OMG! I can't believe you think that with the kind of skill and talent they have, that tape on them is going to make that big of a difference.  They were rookies and still went almost undefeated!
Tape is a very useful tool and those guys study that stuff hard before playing a team.  You guys will not have a year like you had last year.
You wish.  There has been tape on Brady for years.  He's still, although I hate to admit it, one of the greats.  I'm not saying that having the tape is not helpful.  But, when it is true talent, it won't change the outcome.
I don't know about that.... Man, what do you have against Tom Brady!? Even I say he is the man!
He seems like an awful person to me.  I just don't like him.  Also, he's a cheater.  His whole team has been caught several times now doing things that are against the rules in football.
He was out for 4 games last year and they still made it to the big game!
He's an excellent cheater.  I just think that run was fueled by anger. LOL!
You would say that.... One second you say that talent or skill can overcome anything like, for instance, tapes.  Then you say cheating is the reason a very talented QB with 4 rings has them.
Lets not get side-tracked...  The Cowboys will win the Super Bowl this year.  Brady is on the downslope and it's our time now after 20 years!
You Cowboys fans say that every year...
