Matt Stafford is my favorite quarterback in the NFL, he just knows how to win games.
It's been a long time since a Detroit Lions fan could say that about their quarterback. Stafford definitely has been looking really good.
Did you watch the games last year against Green Bay as well as the final stretch of the games to end the season?
Yeah I did, Stafford was awesome in those games. He basically willed them to those wins.
He needs more offensive weapons though.
You don't like their current wide receivers or running backs?
I'm okay with them because they're still young and growing. Another year of experience and this season we'll see if they truly are game changers.
They're offensive line is really good! One of the best in the NFL in my opinion.
I agree the Lions have a really good offensive line. That's why Stafford gets to do what he does so well because of the time he gets from his offensive line.
Darius Slay looks good for them too and he's coming back stronger than before I heard.
Darius is one of the games best cornerbacks. I always feel confident when he's on the opponents best wide receivers. I know he challenged Julio Jones well when they matched up and he's such a game changer forcing turnovers in the secondary too.
I really like him and think the Lions really did well finding him.
Marvin Jones and Golden Tate are returning so that's promising for me. I thought they did really good as the Lions main wide receivers.
Golden Tate was always dependable in Seattle for the Seahawks. I'm glad to see him get to be the main guy over there in Detroit.
Yeah he's been terrific for Stafford. He's always getting open or he'll come back to help Stafford on broken plays.
I've seen him bail the Lions out of so many broken offensive plays.
Marvin Jones really spaces and spreads the field so Golden Tate gets a lot of room to operate underneath.
People are sleeping on Eric Ebron. When he was healthy he was one of the best tight ends in the league.
I hope he can stay healthy this season. It'll help out the Lions a lot.
I can see the Lions probably going 10-6 this season and fighting for that playoff spot.
