Have you seen the series "All or Nothing" about the Los Angels Rams?
You mean the one on Amazon Prime?  I haven't seen that one but I enjoyed the one about the Arizona Cardinals.
Well in the latest series they cover the move of the Rams from St. Louis back to L.A. and the entire season.
I know it was a very disappointing season for the Rams.  They were expecting much better.
The move was disruptive but they didn't use it as an excuse.
I recall that they fired Jeff Fisher with about three games left in the season, which is unusual because head coaches usually don't get fire in the middle of  a season.
Jeff Fisher is highly regarded around the league as one of the better head coaches.
Why do you think they lost so many games?
One problems was a quarterback controversy, which always hurts a team.
That's true.  They gave up some higher picks to draft a new young quarterback and wanted to give him a shot sooner rather than later.
I still don't get their losing records.  The Rams have one of the best running backs in the game and their defense features some All-Pro players.
I agree.  They have a lot of talent on both sides of the ball so that's why the head coach got the blame, I guess.
Their new head coach is very young, under 40, but he did a smart thing in bringing in Wade Phillips to coach the defense.
That is smart.  Wade has been around the NFL for years and has forgotten more about defense than most coaches know.
They held onto their special teams coach and couple others but all the other coaches were let go.
Yeah.  I remember that the special teams coach was the interim head coach when Fisher was fired.
Right.  He coached the last 3 games but didn't do so well although the players seem to respect him.
You have to wonder what their records would have been if they had stayed in St. Louis.
I guess we'll never know but I think they'll do better once their new permanent stadium is finished.
That will probably help from a morale standpoint but a winning records would help even more!
