I was reading the other day about Terrell Brown who plays for the St. Louis Rams. They said he weighed in at 403 pounds.
I know right. There are some really huge players in the NFL.
Yeah, I know some guys are that big naturally, but you just know that of lot of them have to be on steroids.
Right, doesn't the NFL have any rules about the use of steroids?
They do, and they've had them for a long time. But, you just have to believe that most of them are using steroids, and the league is just looking the other way.
I know, there just isn't any way someone can get that big without a little help.
Wow! Can you imagine getting hit head on by one of those guys. I'm 220 pounds, but it would still be like getting run over by a tank.
Yeah, it's no wonder there are so many concussions in the NFL. That's another thing they have been really good at covering up.
It's just starting to come out now. Some of the older retired players are starting to suffer the system and are starting to talk about it.
A lot of players and teams and the teams doctors knew they were playing with concussions and nobody cared.
You know, being a pro football player is a hard way to go.
Yep. There's the pressure to be bigger, stronger and faster than the next guy. And if you don't go along with the program, you don't play and you don't make the big bucks.
I wonder if I were in that position if I would decide in faver of my career, or in faver of my health.
It would be a tough choice. But, it's no wonder so many of the NFL players have violent episodes when their not playing.
Yeah. Between the steroids, and the concussions, and who know what other kinds of pain killers and stimulants they're probably taking, it's a wonder any of them are sane.
Do you think the NFL will ever actually start enforcing some of the rules on that type of thing?
Nope. Not as long as the fans pay to see the games. Nothing will change.
Your right, it's the fans that keep it going.
Hey, by the way I've got tickets for Sundays game. You wanna go?
Are you kidding, I wouldn't miss it.
