Do you think that JJ Watt is going to have a good season this year?
I think as long as he is healthy, he has a chance at being the defensive MVP.
I'm not sure that he is the most dominate defensive player in the NFL anymore, there are some great younger guys.
I think that JJ has the experience and the work ethic that continually makes him elite.
But, he doesn't have the championships and now he is coming back from significant injury.
Well, the quarterback situation in Houston is likely getting better, but it's more about the young guys on Houston's defense that will influence how much time he sees.
So you think that his playing time is going to decrease because of the injury and younger guys?
Not nessecarily. Look at a guy like Julius Peppers, in his 30s not playing on a limited snap count.
I think Julius Peppers is the exception, not the rule though. He takes really good care of himself.
So does JJ Watt. He trains hard and keeps focused during the season so that his teammates can count on him.
It will be interesting to see how he compares with some of the rookies that were drafted this year and some of the younger guys in the league.
Yeah, I think Myles Garrett is going to be a big disrupter in the NFL, but I also look to guys like Taco Charlton to make a difference.
I think there are two vets who are better than JJ and will likely show up bigger than Garrett and Taco; Khalil Mack and Von Miller.
Mack and Miller are no doubt in conversation for the most talented, but JJ has potential to make a huge comeback this year because he will have a chip on his shoulder.
I think both Mack and Miller have the same chip, even without serious injury. Both played for a team that should've played deeper into the playoffs.
Especially Mack! Oakland is ready to challenge this year with both their offense and defense!
Derek Carr and Amari Cooper have made Oakland exciting to watch, but sometimes I think Mack is all alone on defense out there.
That's a lot like JJ Watt. Even with talent on the defensive roster, sometimes it felt like only he was playing.
It will likely look even more like that this year because of Wilfork's absence.
Yes! He added a much needed veteran presence and really pushed JJ in terms of leadership and awareness.
