As a New Orleans Saints fan, are you excited about Adrian Peterson?
More than excited, I'm ecstatic! I'm ready for the season to start today!
I'm really looking forward to seeing Adrian Peterson help out Drew Brees.
Mark Ingram was a capable running back for the Saints but when we talk about Adrian Peterson, that's another level in itself when it comes to a dangerous scoring threat.
Defenses will definitely have to game plan for Adrian Peterson. They won't be able to just play the Saints for the passing game like before.
In the Saints division I think they can win that division this year.
The Tampa Bay Bucs will look better with another year of experience for Jameis Winston. The Carolina Panthers will have Cam Newton healthy again and of course the NFC champion Atlanta Falcons will be there in the path!
I know it's a tough division but I think Adrian Peterson will make the difference for the Saints.
It's going to be really tough. I don't see Atlanta stepping back. They lost the Superbowl so I'm sure they're going to be really hungry to get back there to prove the lost was a fluke.
I'm not sure the Falcons have anything to be ashamed of when you lose to Tom Brady in the Superbowl.
They had a huge lead! Everyone thought it was going to be an easy win for the Atlanta Falcons.
I never thought the Patriots were out of it. They had a full half and anytime you have Tom Brady, you're never out of the game.
Okay, so the Falcons are going to be tough, and I see the Bucs giving the Saints problems next season.
That's true the Bucs always play the Saints tough. I just think they're a few years away from being a serious threat.
Now the Carolina Panthers will be back and angry to make up for an underwhelming season last year too.
I almost forgot they were just in the Superbowl a few years ago.
It was the infamous Peyton Manning Superbowl 50 farewell.
How could I forget that. The Broncos crushed the Panthers in that Superbowl.
It really seem to kill the Panthers spirit last year too.
I think Cam's nagging injuries hurt them more, but I see them bouncing back. Still, I think my Saints will be the top of the division.
