How are the Chicago Bears looking for this upcoming season?
I think the Bears are looking pretty bad!
You don't believe in Mitch Trubisky?
I haven't seen him play a game yet! I've just watched the college highlights but I'm not sold on him being much of an improvement for the Bears.
Anything at this point has to be better then Jay Cutler right?
Jay Cutler gets a bad reputation from all the media news but he's been solid quarterback for the Bears.
He's been terrible! I know you're a Bears fan but you have to admit he's one of the worse quarterbacks in the league the past years.
I know the public perception of him has been bad and the Bears record has been awful but people forget we play in a tough division.
I'll give you the Green Bay Packers as being tough and the Minnesota Vikings when Adrian Peterson was there, even the Detroit Lions as a tough opponent but it's not like the NFC East.
That's ridiculous! You know the NFC Central is probably the most competitive division in the NFL with all the teams always playing tough against each other.
I think that would go to the AFC Central or the NFC South. The NFC Central has been pretty much dominated by the Green Bay Packers.
The Lions gave the Packers a good run last year and they're looking better this season too. Matt Stafford is a legitimate Pro Bowl quarterback.
Do you think the Lions have a shot of winning the NFC Central?
I seriously do think they have a good chance. The Packers looked vulnerable last year and you never know about Aaron Rodgers health especially with that weak offensive line he has.
Okay, but I still don't see the Bear challenging any of those teams with your current roster.
The Bears' roster is young but I think they're going to surprise a lot of people. These guys are good players.
I don't think there's enough talent or experience for them to compete much this year. Didn't you also lose Alshon Jeffery?
Yes we lost him to the Philadelphia Eagles. He signed this off season with them, but it's all about Cameron Meredith now.
Oh that's right, Meredith is looking promising and at least Mitch gives you some hope now that Cutler has retired.
I'm hopeful for the upcoming season and I'm a little sad to see Jay Cutler retire. The pressure definitely got to him.
