Do you think Todd Gurley will be able to bounce back after last year's disappointing season?
I like Todd Gurley a lot but I think he's really overrated since his breakout rookie season.
I think he's really talented and skilled as a runner but I think the Ram's are just a very bad team.
The Rams definitely need a lot of help and a lot of new talent. Their team was so one dimensional last year that defenses just stacked the line to play Gurley.
I think their former coach Jeff Fisher was to blame for that. They were so conservative in their offensive play calling that it made everything they did so predictable for defenses.
It also didn't help that they put Jared Goff in there as a rookie mid way through the season.
Yeah, Goff was definitely a deer in headlights. He wasn't ready for the moment and you could see him just not quite up to NFL game speed.
It's hard for young quarterbacks to step in and make a difference especially when you do not have a lot of talent around you.
The Rams definitely need wide receiver help. That was a huge disappointment last year.
Kenny Britt was their best receiver. When Kenny is your top choice, you know you have wide receiver problems.
I think the Rams defense was really good last year though.
That's the one hope they have and they've done a great job in drafting prospects to help them in that department.
They probably have one of the best defenses in the NFC I would have to say.
Their defensive front line is so strong and so quick. They have good linebackers and their secondary is one of the top in the league.
I'm hoping Todd Gurley will be able to find some holes in the defense to run through this year. It was frustrating to watch him get stuffed at the line on every run last season.
That's what I mean by predictable offense. There was no threat to throw so defenses didn't have to really worry about complex offenses.
Do you think Jared Goff will start again this season for them.
I think so they basically sold a large portion of their future to make him be the franchise quarterback of the future for them so they have to stick with him.
What do you predict their regular season record to be next season?
I think the Rams will be 5-11. They'll improve and keep games close similar to last season but I think they'll fall just short again and have a similar record to last season.
