If you had to pick one wide receiver, any wide receiver of your choice, to start off your NFL team, who would you take?
In previous years this question would be a tough answer but I think in current years it's an easy choice. I take Julio Jones.
You would take Julio Jones easily over Odell Beckham Jr.?
Right now, yes, definitely because Julio has proven himself as an elite NFL wide receiver. The numbers he's put up in Atlanta for the Falcons the past years have been phenomenal!
You don't think it's due to having a talented and skilled quarterback like Matt Ryan?
I think Matt Ryan helps a lot of course, but let's not overlook how quick and big Julio is. There is no defensive coverage that can shut him down, and no cornerback can cover him one on one!
I like Odell Beckham Jr. I would take him but I completely understand you taking Julio Jones.
I like Odell too but he's still too young. Just because he made some eye opening, jaw dropping, amazing catches doesn't solidify him in my eyes as being on Julio's level just yet.
I can understand that. Odell still has a lot to prove, he disappeared in the playoffs last year for the Giants and that's not going to cut it.
That's what I mean. He's super talented and skilled, makes amazing catches, but aside from not knowing some techniques to lose defenses, he has that temper!
He's quite the hot head. It seems opponents can easily get into his head. Previous years when they played Carolina when Josh Norman was there, he disrupted Odell's concentration a lot.
He continued doing that, Josh Norman that is, in Washington.
That's right Josh Norman is on the Redskins now.
I think Odell needs to really grow up and be a true professional. Look at how Julio carries himself on the field and off the field, that's the type of leader and star wide receiver you want.
I see your point, I'm just really excited about Odell's big play potential. He's so entertaining to watch because you don't know when he's going to do something that'll just blow your mind.
In a few more years we'll see if Odell lives up to this early potential and hype. I think if he does mature he'll get there.
I'm not really sold on Eli Manning as the Giants quarterback going forward. He's so inconsistent in his performances for me.
That's been Eli's game though. You can criticize it but at the end of the day he's still a two time Superbowl Champion and seems to be Tom Brady's kryptonite.
It's amazing isn't it how Eli always seems to have Tom Brady's number when they match up in the big game.
Eli also did that without Julio Jones level wide receivers in those Superbowls. He made average wide receivers look better then they were.
