hey; you're a Jets fan, aren't you?
shhh...don't speak so loudly.  it's not something i'm proud of and i don't want people to hear me admit it, but yes, i am a long time Jets fan.
I'm a Jets fan too, but i've only followed them for a few seasons so i'm not really familiar with the team's history. can you fill me in?
well, the Jets were originally called the Titans...absolutely no connection with the Tennessee franchise.  they were the Titans for two seasons and played their home games in the old Polo Grounds until the moved into Shea Stadium as the Jets a few years later.
Wow! i never knew their original name was the Titans.  And the Polo Grounds? Are you serious? that was a real stadium?
It sure was.  it was the home of the baseball Giants; the team that moved to San Francisco.  In fact, it's where the Mets played before moving into Shea Stadium, but that's another story.
So the Jets came into existence in 1960, as I understand it...and originally they were in the old American Football League?
that's right.  they were one of the teams in the old A.F.L. that eventually merged with the National Football League.
So the Jets weren't an expansion team because they entered the A.F.L. when the league was brand new?
that's right.  technically they were not an expansion team.  they played in the A.F.L. and eventually that league had so many good players that the established National Football League had no choice but to merge with them.
Very interesting.  And how did the Titans...and then Jets...do in their early years? were they very good?
no, they were not.  they had some mediocre years and some bad years until they drafted the legendary Joe Namath.  That changed the whole franchise and made the team noteworthy.
I've seen some highlight films of Namath and i've also seen him interviewed many times.  He was quite a personality, wasn't he?
He was a fabulous quarterback and he certainly had that confidence that the fans loved so much.
So as soon as Namath joined the team, they were a great team, right?
Actually, no.  Far from it.  the team struggled when Namath got there but they improved gradually until the magical 1968 season.
1968...that was when they won their first super bowl, wasn't it? against the Colts?
Yes, and no.  it was against the Colts, but it wasn't their first super bowl...it's their only super bowl.
what? no wonder you don't want people to know you root for the Jets.  one super bowl in over half a century of games?
now you understand why their nickname is "gang green."  it was their only super bowl win, and in fact their only super bowl appearance.  it's not an easy team to root for, but I continue to root for them.  i'm not sure what that says about me, but i'm looking forward to this season.
