What team in the NFL has the best defense right now?
I think the Houston Texans have the best defense going into the upcoming season.
You think they're better than the Patriots, Broncos, and Seahawks?
I think they are better. They don't get as much publicity because they're not a flashy team but I think they're defense is really, really good.
The Patriots defense allowed the lowest points though, and they get stops to win games when it counts!
I mean the Broncos, Patriots and Seahawks defenses give up less points than the Texans but the Texans allow the fewest yards. It just means teams can't move the ball against them.
That's true and a good point a lot of times last season the opposing teams scored on them or put up points because of the Texans inept offense.
Right, their offense was terrible. They turned the ball over a lot and couldn't move the ball so the defense was put in a lot of tough situations.
Okay, I can see that. I like how they improved the offense this year.
They made substantial changes because it's definitely necessary. I think they're going to be back to the playoffs and they'll take their division again too.
Yeah it doesn't look like the AFC South has much competition for them. I don't see the Jacksonville Jaguars or the Colts making enough noise.
There just isn't enough talent on those other teams to challenge the Houston Texans right now. I'm not saying the Texans are the best team overall in the AFC but in their division their clearly better than those other teams.
I can see them winning their division again but do you think they'll go further in the playoffs this year?
I don't see the Texans challenging the superior teams in the AFC like the Patriots, Steelers, Raiders and Chiefs, but you never know.
It seems like every new season we have a lot of surprising teams rise and some good teams fall.
This might be the season the Texans begin to rise up to the ranks of the superior teams we'll talk about in the future.
I'm still not sold on their offense but I'm willing to see what they have in store for the season.
As long as JJ Watts returns healthy they're defense is going to look even better than last year.
I can't wait to see JJ return to the field. He's such an unstoppable pass rusher.
You can feel the fear in quarterbacks when he's lined across from them. I hope he makes a good and healthy return too.
