How many games do you think the Miami Dolphins will win next season?
I think they're going to win at most 8 games.
Really, just 8 games? Why do you think that?
I think it's basically the same team as last year and coach Adam Gase isn't a great coach in my opinion.
I think they're going to win at least 10 games. Ryan Tannehill looked good last season and he's only going to get better.
I like Tannehill and I think the Dolphins' wide receivers have a lot of speed but they're not the best receivers in the game.
They spread the field and stretched it quite a bit last year. I loved it when they aired it out. Tannehill is impressive when he has full control of the offense.
There's more to being a good wide receiver than just speed. You need to have really high field IQ and I don't see any of the current wide receivers having that kind of game feel.
It's really disappointing that Arian Foster didn't work out for them last season.
Well it was expected. Arian Foster is such a good running back but he can never stay healthy. He always gets banged up.
I was really hoping he would have been a good replacement for Lamar Miller.
Lamar Miller looked great in Houston!
I know, there was such regret, but I was hoping that Arian Foster would escape his injury curse.
The lack of a consistent running game did really hurt the Dolphins.
I can understand now why you don't think the Dolphins will win more than 8 games.
Yeah I just can't see it. I know their defense is overrated especially with all the big names they brought in like Suh, but I don't see them competing for a Superbowl.
If the defense ever gets on the same page and puts up a consistent season showing out their potential, the 10 wins are a possibility for me.
Don't forget they're in the same division as the Patriots. That means they have to play New England twice a year!
I have nightmares about Brady but to be honest we always play him tough.
That's true the Dolphins are one of the teams that has mild success in the regular season against Tom Brady.
