Are you looking forward to the new NFL celebration rules?
Not really, Goodell found a way to make it less fun, even though they are allowing more of a celebration.
Do you mean the new focus on clock management after a touchdown?
Yeah and they are supposedly limiting the tv timeouts so that the game flows better and finishes on time.
I'm not sure you can always predict which games will flow smoothly, because injuries and penalties in the nfl tend to be rather lengthy.
That's why I'm not sure why they modified the celebration rules for the players at all.
I think because the NFL is trying to capture a younger audience, they know they have to make it entertaining for those who may not be interested in the Xs and Os.
Yes, but the refs will have the ultimate say, just like before, in regards to player conduct.
Maybe Antonio Brown will get away with some of his flashier dances after scoring the touchdown?
Only if he doesn't slow the pace of play, because the play clock will start after the ref signals the score.
I think that might make some teams' kicks a bit rushed and little less accurate than before the rule change.
There are those kickers who seem to be flustered in times of great stress, but most of the long time kickers will practice the situation with their units.
Whatever the league office's motives are in this case, there are going to be some great highlight reels at the end of every Sunday!
As long as the refs let the players have a little fun, the NFL fans might relax a bit, too.
I was wondering if any of the celebration rules had to do with player safety as the league is trying to make that a focus.
Do you mean that excessive celebration leads to other teams getting chippy and causing some personal fouls?
Not necessarily, no. I'm thinking more along the lines of large offensive lineman jumping on the smaller players in celebration and accidentally hurting their players.
That could be a hazard, but I think it's important for teams to celebrate together and build up rapport with one another.
I don't really know what the NFL owners' intentions were with the new touchdown rules, but I hope it makes the games go by a bit quicker!
Yeah those Monday night football games end so late for those who watch on the East coast!
