Wonder Woman made lots of money on opening weekend! It was also the first superhero movie directed by a woman. How do you think that will effect other super hero movies and those that may be directed by women?
Yeah, Wonder Woman was really good and got a ton of great feedback. I think that this was a great movie to showcase a female super hero and to let people know how marketable that can be.
It seems like Marvel Cinematic Universe is much further along and doing much better than the DC extended universe but I think there is plenty to learn from the DCEU and how well they did with the Wonder Woman movie.
That is so true! Marvel does have a few women like Black Widow, Gamora and the upcoming Captain Marvel movie that will be starring Brie Larson. I think Scarlet Johannson who plays Black Widow could be another actor to have her own standalone movie. She has proven she can carry a movie by herself
I am excited to see the Captain Marvel movie and I have been interested in some of the history of Black Widow. It is also going to be interesting to see if the Captain Marvel movie can do as well or better than Wonder Woman.
Marvel President Kevin Feige has done a great job with the movies that Marvel rolls out and I am confident that the Captain Marvel movie will be just as good as anything else that have put out.
I dont believe there has been an announcement about a director for the Captain Marvel movie. Maybe after seeing how well Patty Jenkins did with Wonder Woman Marvel may possibly look for a woman director, kinda like they chose a black director for the Black Panther movie.
That sound like a great idea and im sure they are thinking about it after the success of the Wonder Woman movie. Do you see the new Black Panther trailer last week though? It looks like the director Ryan Coogler is going to put together a really good movie!!
I dont know if I am convinced that just because it is a black movie a black person needs to direct it or that since its a female movie a female has to direct it but they are putting out really good work and at the end of the day that is what is really important.
I completely agree! I think the more Black people get to showcase their talents and women get to showcase their talents as well, these kinds of things will become more and more common and I am truly in favor of that!
