Do you think Tom Brady is a better quarterback now then Joe Montana was?
I'm a huge 49ers fan and a huge Montana fan so it's hard for me to honestly say yes, but I have to say yes.
I was thinking about this the other day and it's hard to argue against Tom Brady being the best quarterback ever now.
How can you really argue against it? He's won 5 Superbowls. He's been Superbowl MVP 4 times. He's been league MVP 2 times. Those are stellar merits.
I guess the only argument you could make is that he lost Superbowls.
Oh don't remind me about the Eli curse.
He's 7-2 in the Superbowl. So, you have to take into the account of times he's appeared as well as the number of victories.
Joe Montana has won 4 Superbowls and was named Superbowl MVP 3 times. Joe's also 4-0 in the Superbowl. Undefeated.
That's true. I think that's the argument you could make that Joe Montana is better than Tom Brady but it's hard to overlook Tom's achievements.
I've heard people say that Joe had Jerry Rice so it made life easier for him.
While that's true that Joe Montana did have Jerry Rice he also played in an era where quarterbacks weren't protected like they are now.
That's right. You could argue that his career could have been longer if he had the same rules that protect quarterbacks today like Tom Brady.
Exactly, I think that's an argument you could have with someone about who's the greatest quarterback of all time when it comes to comparing Brady with Montana.
It makes for an interesting discussion but I still find it tough to not say Tom Brady is the best.
There really isn't much of a strong case to be made but it's not beyond debating.
If you factor in their games and moments, it just seems like Joe has had a lot of classic moments.
Which is surprising because in today's time with the TV, internet, and social media exposure, I feel we have seen everything Tom Brady has done.
While that's correct, I think all of Tom Brady's highlights on the field don't measure and compare to Joe Montana's.
Right, if we just compare highlights I would say Aaron Rodgers has more impressive highlights than Tom Brady but Tom Brady is overall the better if not the best quarterback of all time.
I can't wait to have this debate 10 years from now about who the next great quarterback is to compare with Tom Brady after he retires.
