Do you think the Green Bay Packers will be able to bounce back this season?
I think the Green Bay Packers will be in it every season as long as Aaron Rodgers is healthy and playing.
So Aaron Rodgers or Matt Ryan as best current quarterback in the league?
How can you exclude Tom Brady from that debate?
I'm not, I'm just bringing up a scenario where it's excluding Tom Brady because we know he's a future Hall of Famer.
Okay fair enough. I think Aaron Rodgers over Matt Ryan as best current quarterback by a large margin.
Why do think that? Matt Ryan has shown he's very capable and he's even made the Superbowl.
Matt Ryan did, but he fell short. Aaron Rodgers already is a champion and Superbowl MVP.
That's a good point. Until Matt Ryan wins a Superbowl I guess it's hard to put them on the same level.
Exactly, he has to prove himself a champion before he can be compared to a champ.
I don't know by that statement you could say that Eli Manning is a better quarterback then Aaron.
That's a good point. It seems like when we compare who's better than who we use Superbowl rings as a marker unless it's someone we feel is less talented.
Yeah seems to be always the case, but there's a fair argument that can go both ways.
I stand by my choice of Aaron Rodgers over Matt Ryan but I'm not discrediting Matt Ryan's achievements so far. He has a bright future.
It helps when you have Julio Jones to throw passes to!
I'm just wondering if Matt Ryan will have the same opportunities next season now that Kyle Shanahan the offensive coaching mastermind has left for the San Francisco 49ers.
I think the Atlanta Falcons will retain a lot of his playbook and I'm sure Matt has picked up a lot from the past seasons to be competent enough to continue with his success.
I can see that. Now I'm wondering if Aaron Rodgers can keep performing like he has.
I think the Green Bay Packers will look even better this year. They're going to be healthier and they've added more weapons.
I'm looking forward to it as you know Aaron Rodgers is my favorite current NFL quarterback.
