Hey Bill, you watch the game last night? The 49ers performed like a high school junior varsity team compared to the Cowboys.
Hey James, the 49ers were not doing so well I agree, without Colin Kaepernick the team seems to be really suffering
Bill you are being ridiculous, Colin Kaepernick and his political protest have nothing to do with the success or failure of the 49ers. The team is altogether busted.
James you are too much, how can you deny the fact that the recent political protest turmoil did not effect the teams overall moral?
Bill I believe the Cowboys are a strong model of good sportsmanship and talent.
James do you think the Cowboys will make it to the superbowl next season?
Bill if the Cowboys make it to the superbowl its because their defensive and offensive strategies are being refined through their preseason practicing techniques
Yeah James I heard that the Cowboys practice year round and that they travel to many different stadiums to get a sense of how each field is unique and must be mastered according to the terrain, weather, and stadium setup.
Bill that is very interesting information, I did not know the Cowboy's team leadership is studying environmental impact on performance
Yes James, did you also know that the Cowboys use extensive statistics and data collection on player movements to optimize individual player and collective team performance
Wow what kind of statistics are they performing Bill to understand player performance?
Well James, I heard they look at a variety of statistical indicators including number of fumbles, time of possession, yards rushed, number of concussions, number of contacts with opposing team players, and much more
Wow that is fascinating that the Cowboys and the NFL are utilizing big data to study player behavior and improve their performance
Yes these techniques were learned from Sabremetrics in baseball. The movie Moneyball wit Brad Pitt does a great job illustrating the power of data to optimize team configurations and strategies. These same principles are being applied to the NFL
Speaking of collect player data, have you seen the movie Concussion with Will Smith?
Yes that is an excellent movie that presents the effects of head injury on football player performance, health outcomes, mental health outcomes, criminal behavior, and mortality rates.
Yes I was shocked to see in that movie that some of the players who have history of repeatedly being tackled and sustaining head injuries beginning to abuse drugs and engaging in self-harmful behaviors
Yes it is true the movie Concussion is a well crafted non-fictional account of the development of the diagnosis for Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy due to amyloid plaques building up in the brain after concussion. The plaques cause significant neural cell death which causes a decline in cognitive function, memory, judgement, and decision making in NFL football players
The movie does an interesting job of highlighting the role of the NFL in trying to censor and ignore the problems of head injury in football.
I believe the NFL is a great business, but sometimes its bottom-line priorities may interfere and conflict with protecting the health of the players. More research and treatment must be provided to NFL football players.
