Did do you think the San Francisco 49ers made good decisions this off season?
I liked their draft picks a lot. I'm really excited about Solomon Thomas.
I am too! Don't forget they basically got Reuben Foster as a steal late in the 1st round.
I haven't forgotten. I'm really excited about Reuben Foster too. I think they're really going to solidify the 49ers defense this season.
They've struggled so much last season but I like the new editions to the team. I think General Manager Lynch has done a terrific job.
I can't believe how many good moves Lynch has made already. I didn't expect to be this excited after coming off such disappointing past seasons.
I know the last time they made the Superbowl with Jim Harbaugh coaching seems a distant memory away now.
Don't remind me. I still love Harbaugh and will always support him over Jed York.
Worse owner in the league! Hopefully he's stepping back this year and letting Lynch run the show and decision making.
Do you think coach Kyle Shanahan can bring the exciting offense that he orchestrated with the Atlanta Falcons here?
I hope so. I mean he doesn't have quite the offensive power and talent here that he has in Atlanta but I'm hoping he has a good eye to scout and bring in the talent necessary to run his offense.
Oh no doubt, imagine if we had Julio Jones and Matt Ryan passing to him, I'm sure we'd be right back in the talks about championship contention.
That would be a dream but we have to hope the offense shows some signs this year. It's been an offensively struggle the past few seasons.
I know former coach Chip Kelly was suppose to juice our offense up but we just never saw it. It's a shame because Chip is a really good offensive master mind.
I think with the distractions gone like Colin Kaepernick, we'll be able to have a well unified team. Hopefully team chemistry builds early.
The division is going to be tough with the Arizona Cardinals reloading and the Seattle Seahawks will never go away. I think the only team that hasn't really improved is the Los Angeles Rams.
The Rams are in a similar situation as we are. They don't really have a star player and their defense is strong but their offense out side of Todd Gurley is very suspect.
They do have Jared Goff with all that potential but he'll need more years and experience to possibly show that.
I think it'll be a fun year for our team as well as the season overall. Who do you think takes it all this year?
If I had to bet money, I'd always bet on the New England Patriots.
