I can't believe you were able to watch all the Cleveland Browns games last season.
As a die hard Browns fan, I will never miss a single one of their games!
That sounds so painful. So what do you think of their upcoming season.
I'm really excited about drafting Myles Garrett and I think he will make their defense really solid.
I'm excited to see how Myles will look out there. There was so much hype going into the draft about him and then all that buzz about the Browns trading away their #1 pick to move down or for a quarterback.
I know there was so much noise, but I was hoping they kept the draft pick so they could draft Myles and they did, so I'm pretty excited and happy about the upcoming season.
I caught a few Browns games last season and they didn't look that bad. They lost a lot of close games.
Most of the Browns games last season were such heart breaking losses.
What's the team looking like this season aside from Myles Garrett?
Well you know we have offensive line super star Joe Thomas, and of course we have Joe Haden on defense in the secondary so we're always going to be excited about that.
Joe Thomas is so good but not a lot of other football fans know how good he is. Joe Haden gets more publicity but he's really good.
That's what has me excited because on defense we have Myles Garrett now to chase after opposing quarterbacks and we have Joe Haden in the secondary to guard top wide receivers. Haden is also a big playmaker.
I'm looking forward to the Browns taking the next step and making themselves more of a respectable team competitively.
I think you'll see it this season. Joe Thomas protects the quarterback so well and he's such a good run blocker too.
Do you know who's starting at quarterback for the Browns this season.
Well the Browns signed Brock Osweiler who I'm not thrilled about, but I do like their draft pick of DeShone Kizer and hoping he really shows out well during training camp going into the season.
Kizer looks like a very exciting prospect for the Browns.
There's also Cody Kessler who's a safe play at quarterback too. With another season under his belt and some options on offense I think he might really emerge as the starting QB for the Browns.
I think they'll make some improvements in the season but it's going to be tough especially in their division.
Tell me about it, the AFC Central is brutal with the Pittsburgh Steelers, Baltimore Ravens, and Cincinnati Bengals.
