Who do you think will be the NFL's rookie of the year for 2017-2018?
Oh that's a tough one. I think there are a few contenders, but that Christian McCaffrey will be the rookie of the year.
I think he and Fournette will be some of the most dynamic playmaking rookies of the year, but I wonder who will be more successful?
McCaffrey is going to a team with a good quarterback who needs to be flanked by a running game.
Yeah, the Panthers really missed having a good running game last season and it showed.
Ron relied too much on Cam Newton to make plays and after he got hurt, he wasn't the same.
Cam's body is too big to move the way they want him to, so having a running game will take the pressure off of his legs.
Yeah, it's likely that McCaffrey will bring a lot to the team, I just hope the offensive line is healthy and can block.
McCaffrey didn't have the best offensive line when he was in school, but he is fast and smart.
You could tell that at the combine and from draft analysis.
I read one scouting report about how he has some of the best footwork in the nfl!
It's hard to make a statement like that before he has even taken a snap, but I am excited to see how he compares to some of the better vets.
It's tough to believe that he will have a year like Zeke Elliot had last year.
Of course Zeke had a good year, the Cowboys have the best offensive line in the nfl!
That's true, but rushing as much as he did, it was also his skills that made him have all of those 100 yards plus games.
He didn't quite get the 2000 yards that he was hoping to, but I think that's because the defenses he faced figured out the Cowboy's game plan and adjusted.
Yeah, he didn't really add anything new to his playbook during the season, but I think his blocking got better as it progressed.
Not sure that blocking really plays a factor in nfl rookie of the year consideration, but maybe that's the edge McCaffrey will need.
I think he can really stand out as a pass catcher, not just as someone running between the tackles.
Well, Cam is going to need all the offensive weapons he can so that he can stay a lot healthier this upcoming season.
