Who are your favorite NFL announcers of all time? They don't necessarily need to be current.
Well, I have a special place in my heart of John Madden. He sort of opened up color commentary to a whole new level of fun and insight.
Yeah, he was a total natural. He combined great insight and humor, like you were alluding to.
I would have to say that currently I do like Al Michaels and Chris Collinsworth. I think they are the best tandem and I will tune into games they play just to hear them call the game.
I think that's a first. I don't know if I've ever heard of anyone tune into an NFL game just to hear the commentators.
Well, yeah, it's hard to explain why they are so good. I think they have a chemistry that few can match.
There are other teams that are just as smart or provide good analysis, but I agree, they just have a certain synergy together that is unparalleled.
I completely agree. If we are talking all-time greats, you can't forget Howard Cosell.
Naturally and no doubt. Such a wordsmith -- and that voice and New York accent. Pure genius!
Yes, and he called perhaps the saddest game of all-time, a Monday night game when John Lennon passed away.
Oh, yes, I remember that, he was very classy about how he handled that situation.
Not to switch gears too much but what ever happened to Brent Musburger? He was so good!
Yeah, I don't know myself. He brought a certain sort of calm, analytical professionalism to the games he called.
Yeah, and for awhile there in the 80's, he was THE announcer when CBS ruled sports broadcasting.
I'm not exactly sure what happened to him, perhaps he was phased out due to old age.
In terms of some of the newer announcers, I sort of like Jon Gruden. He was this macho swagger that I sort of like.
Yeah, it's kinda like a military drill sargent calling a game. I think he's an acquired taste, but I think for most football fans, he's a good fit.
I know this is a "hot take" -- sort of -- but I like Joe Buck. I know I'm probably in the minority here, but I think he's professional and calls a good game.
Yeah, I think you lost me with that one. I'm waiting for him to retire. I think he said he's going to move on at a point in the not so distant future.
Overall, I think the sport has a number of good announcers and good announcing teams. It's a good time to be a fan!
