What team that made the playoffs last year do you think will miss them this year?
I think that the Atlanta Falcons are in for a rough season.
Really? They were just in the superbowl!
Yeah, I don't think they have added much during the offseason to change any outcomes.
I think that you're right about the offseason additions, but I'm more worried about if they can shake that superbowl loss.
It would definately be a tough thing to go through, losing a 25 point lead late in the game, but I think enough time will have passed.
You do realize that the Falcons have a history of not bouncing back, right?
I do know that they rarely have two good seasons back to back in recent history, but this team is well-rounded and they didn't lose many players to other teams.
It's just that Matt Ryan is so talented, but the defense and offense don't always play well in the same games.
That's how it is for a lot of teams, though. Ryan is an elite quarterback.
He is one of the more talented in the NFL, but I think there needs to be some successes in his career before calling him elite.
Yes, now that they have the brand new stadium in Atlanta, it's important to bring a new chapter of success to the franchise.
I think their division is a toss up this year. So many teams could be contenders.
That's why I think they might not make the playoffs, it depends on how Carolina performs and if Tampa wins a few more this year.
We are forgetting about the biggest wildcard of them all, the Saints!
Yeah, the Saints had the most offensive yards in 2016 of any team in the league. Drew Brees is a monster on offense.
It could be a four way race most of the season, considering Atlanta and New Orleans both have such explosive offenses.
That's so true, but the falcons have an insanely better defense than the Saints.
I don't know if Atlanta's defense is as good as Tampa Bay's though, they kept Tampa in so many games this year.
I think their defenses stack up nicely together, but it will make for some good division game watching this year!
