I am a football fan and a bit of a historian on it.  Do you like football too?
Yeah I liked all the old players and about some of the old games.
Some of the guys were so tough back in the day.  They played both offence and defense for the whole game.
So they were.  One time in a championship game the field was really slippery so they went out at halftime and got sneakers and changed shoes which gave them the edge for the game.
I saw the first Super Bowl and remember that it was really cold and the Packers won the first two Super bowls.
Vince Lombardi was the coach and the trophy won at the Super bowl was named for him.
They had so many tough guys playing, like Jim Brown who rushed for so many yards.  He was amazing.
I love the running backs like O.J. who was such a great player but so sadly fell and became criminal after his career was over.
George Blanda was a great player.  He was a great quarterback and kicker and extended his career by becoming a kicker.
Sure.  He was the highest scorer when he retired and held the record for so many years.
I remember Super Bowl 3 when Joe Namath assured a win when he was the underdog.
And then they beat the favored Colts.  Soon after the NFL and AFL merged.
The player I loved for his play and presence was Joe Montana.  He was the comeback kid.
There was no one like him when his team got behind and needed to score in the waning moments of a game.
He did it about 30 times if I remember right, how awesome is that.
He was a good role model too.  They are hard to find, so many players receive so much for playing and seem so selfish.
I liked that Tim Tebow.  He seemed to play well with Denver but the sent him off to take Peyton Manning  instead.
That was the end of Tebow.  He floated around a bit but never caught on anywhere else, almost like he was a joke or something.
I guess my favorite player was a real rebel.  Jim McMahon of the Bears.
They had good chemistry with coach Mike Ditka.  It was a flash in the pan but a remarkable time in football.
