Who do you think is going to win the NFC South this season?
That's a good question. I think that Jameis Winston will have a breakout season and lead the Tampa Bay Buccaneers to first in the division.
Do you think it's likely that for the third time in three years, the NFC South will have an average quarterback come out of nowhere and dominate the league?
When you put it like that, it sounds unlikely. However, he has an elite receiving core with the addition of DeSean Jackson.
Jackson is an excellent deep threat and I predict that he will complement Mike Evans. However, the defense worries me.
What about Gerald McCoy? He's coming off his fifth Pro Bowl season.
True, although their defensive secondary leaves much to be desired.
It's probably their weakest element, but I'm still optimistic. Who do you think will win the NFC South this season?
I'd have to predict the Carolina Panthers.
Really? They had an awful 6-10 record last season.
Yeah, but I think that Cam Newton will bounce back. Furthermore, I'm very excited to see how they use Christian McCaffrey.
He should be an excellent player on offense. However, I'm worried that Cam Newton's propensity to run the ball will open him up to injury, which could hurt their overall offense.
I think that they drafted McCaffrey to put Cam Newton in better positions so that he won't run the ball as much.
Maybe, although Cam Newton is the type of player that does front flips into the end zone. I think that he will continue to put himself at risk for injury.
Newton's size definitely contributes to his fearlessness while playing. However, I feel that the combination of Christian McCaffrey, Greg Olsen, and a healthy Kelvin Benjamin will allow him to distribute the ball more.
We'll see. However, their defense is probably worse situated than Tampa Bay.
I disagree. Luke Kuechly is still one of the best linebackers in the league and they have many underrated players like Shaq Thompson.
But their secondary has never fully recovered since Josh Norman left for the Washington Redskins. Furthermore, their defensive coordinator just departed to become the head coach of the Buffalo Bills.
True. However, Ron Rivera is a former defensive coordinator himself, so I'm not overly concerned regarding a huge drop off in terms of defense.
We'll see. It's funny though that neither of us picked the defending NFC Champion Atlanta Falcons.
