Which of the incoming rookie quarterbacks do you think will have the best season in 2017?
I would say Patrick Mahomes, but I'm not too optimistic about him.
This is not a great rookie quarterback class. I'm still surprised you chose Mahomes though.
I don't necessarily believe that he has the highest ceiling of this rookie class, but I think that having Andy Reid has his head coach positions him well for success.
I like Andy Reid a lot, but Mahomes never ran a pro-style offense at Texas Tech. Why do you think he'll be able to pick it up quickly in the NFL?
The good thing for Mahomes is that he doesn't need to pick it up too quickly because the Chiefs have a reliable veteran in Alex Smith.
Fair point, we'll see who's right once we're in the season.
Yeah, who do you have as your top rookie quarterback going into the season.
I know that this is unusual, but I think that DeShone Kizer has the most potential of anyone from this rookie class.
Are you serious? The rookie quarterback for the dumpster fire that is the Cleveland Browns?
Hear me out. He has size, arm strength, and an offensive-minded head coach in Hue Jackson.
Yeah, but he plays for the worst football team in the NFL in a very tough division.
I totally agree that Cleveland isn't a model franchise, but Kizer will be stepping into an offense with a decent running game and a good offensive line. Give him a chance.
I don't think Cleveland has held on to the same quarterback for more than two seasons since they got their NFL franchise back in 1999. I wouldn't hold my breath.
It's only Hue Jackson's second year. Again, please give him a chance.
Their 1-15 record from last year is more than enough evidence for me to make up my mind about Hue Jackson as a head coach. In fact, I would say that DeShone Kizer is in a worse situation football-wise compared with Mitch Trubisky.
I agree that Mitch Trubisky is a pretty bad situation in Chicago, but at least he has a veteran quarterback in Mike Glennon that he can develop behind.
The Chicago Bears are an organizational mess that over traded to move up to second in the Draft to take Trubisky. I am worried for him.
I wish I could disagree with you more, but with the loss of Alshon Jeffery in free agency, I don't see him having any offensive weapons.
Yeah, and the issues are only compounded by their defensive-minded head coach John Fox.
