Are you ready for some football?  Less than two months until the regular season kickoff!
You know it!  There are so many story lines to follow with players changing teams and exciting rookies coming into the league.
What player changing teams are you most excited to see?  And which do you think will have the biggest impact?
Wow so many to choose from!  Marshawn Lynch to the Raiders, AP to the Saints, Jamaal Charles to the Broncos, and Alshon Jeffrey to the Eagles are the ones I'm most excited to see!
I'm excited to see how Lynch does after his brief retirement.  Do you think he still has some Beast Mode left in him?
Definitely!  I can't wait to see him eating Skittles on the sidelines and running over defensive backs.  Remember his run in the Super Bowl a few years ago?  Simply amazing!
Oh man definitely Beast Mode at his finest.  I think the league missed having a character around like him.  I'm excited to see how he does with the Raiders.  What other story lines are you following?
I'm interested to see if Colin Kaepernick or Jay Cutler end up signing somewhere or not.  All it will take is a major injury for a star quarterback and maybe one of them will be back.  What about you?
I'm excited to see how some of the rookies do at the next level, as well as to see if the Dallas Cowboys can continue their success with Dak Prescott and Ezekiel Elliot running the show.
I agree.  I don't think the Cowboys will be as good as they were last year, but I'm excited to see if I'm right or wrong.
I'm just excited for the National Football League to be back in my life period.  Fantasy football, watching shows about football, listening to podcasts about football, I'm ready for it all.  Who are you taking to win the Super Bowl?
I think going with the New England Patriots to repeat is a no brainer.  It seems like they just keep getting better and better with their acquisitions and Tom Brady showing no signs of slowing down.  Who are you taking?
I think the smart choice is the Patriots, but I think the Falcons will come back hungry and with a huge chip on their shoulder.  I also like the Seahawks to have a strong season.
There are a lot of tough teams and that just makes it more exciting and has me more and more pumped up as the season inches closer and closer.
How do you feel about all the issues surrounding concussions in the league?  It seems like it is a story that won't go away but one that probably shouldn't go away anytime soon.
There definitely still needs to be some changes made in the protocol.  Hearing offseason stories like Tom Brady's wife saying he has had multiple concussions but never appearing on the injury report for them is concerning.
I agree.  It's scary hearing about all the retired players suffering from CTE and the recent story about Warren Sapp feeling like he is already dealing with issues at a young age make me think things need to change.
Definitely.  Hopefully the steps will begin when children begin playing football at a young age.  Back to the actual game, who do you think will win the MVP award?
As much as I hate to say it, I think you have to go with Tom Brady playing a full season.  His stats are going to be ridiculous like usual.  What about you?
I agree, but I think Ezekiel Elliot is going to tear it up in his second year.  I saw him in the ESPN Body Issue and he looks ripped and ready to punish some defenses!  I can't wait!
