Did you see that Game last night? 13 innings is insane! I can't believe how it ended!
Yea, that homer by Davis was awesome.
What do you think about Trumbo's hit?
I still cant belive Machado got out that early in the inning- he's better than that!
And how it was so close until the 11th inning- Tigers sure knew how to hold em.
Hey, speaking of the Tigers, they have a new owner.. guy named Ilitch. Not sure how thats going to go based on reports.
But the team stayed in the family, so thats a good thing- you know when new owners come on, its always difficult for the players.. and it affects the game.
Have you ever been to Comerica Park? I was there a couple years ago- but I prefer Camden Yards any day
Yea, I got to go for my birthday one year when the birds were in town and I was there for work.. crystal clear view of the field and pitcher. Loved it.
I'd like to get back to a game soon, but its been so difficult with work. I think between Trumbo, Davis, and Machado, it would be so much fun this season. They really are in their zone.
I know, Davis is holding the record so far with all his extra inning home runs. Guy can hit!
Right- and I can't believe what happened to Jones a few weeks ago at Fenway.. someone threw a bag of peanuts at him in the pen and called out racial slurs.
I know, sometimes fans are horrible- they get so drunk they dont think half the time. Plus, theres no real consquencs.. guy shouldve been arrested or fined for that type of behavior.. throwing stuff on the field is dangerous.
Also all that drama against the red sox was ridiculous too.. throwing balls at each other, cussing each other out.. what are they, toddlers?
I know, I hope that their managers got em straightened out so all that bs can stop and the O's can focus on the game. They are doing to well to ruin their season with crap like that.
no players needs intentional throwing, it can be detrimental to anyone. I get they were upset at Macado's slide that one game, saying he was trying to hurt the sox guy on purpose.
Well hopefully all that stuff has stopped and the Red Sox and O's will be civil in the next game against each other.
I hope to get to see the O's play Tampa in June, but depends on work.. I don't hear much about them or the Marlins, and I live in Florida! Like they just dont exist in the news realm.
I don't know much about those teams either.. I don't think they are ranked well. I've heard that they have been holding their own.
Well, the season is just starting- you know it always gets exciting! Come over to my house and watch the game this weekend, okay?
