Could an MLB team go undefeated playing a college schedule?
All it takes is one hot pitcher
My brother said no. He also said LSU would beat the Astros one game out of 50. I think the gap is too large between college/professional baseball. Thoughts?
Your brother is correct. It would only be one game out of 50, but it would happen.
The talent gap is so large. Idk official statistics, but I'd be willing to bet 6 out of 9 starters on a college team won't make it to AA ball. Every starter on an MLB team is one of the best players in the world. I think they'd run through the schedule. Hitting/Pitching is so much more advanced.
The talent differential would be night and day. But even if you give the pros a 98% chance of winning each game, they only have a 36% of winning 50 straight. If you bump it to 99%, it is a 60% chance.
All things being equal, the worst MLB team wouldn't lose more than 2 games. Given that the NCAA team uses wooden bats or the MLB team uses aluminum bats.
If it's 100% on the same playing field there is no chance. Guys like Altuve, Trout or Harper would hit close to .550 with a metal bat against NCAA pitching.
Think a team like LSU, with really good fielding, would almost definitely win one in 50. All it takes is one game where the MLB team gee unlucky on balls in play and the MLB pitcher has control issues
I think college hitters could hit MLB pitchers, but college pitchers would get killed by MLB batters. That being said, I think the MLB team would have at least a couple of off nights. So no, I don't think they could win 50+ straight.
Talent gap isn't much different overall from each college to pro sport but baseball is certainly the easiest sport for a college team to beat a pro team.
College teams regularly compete well with pro teams in exhibition games, so while its possible for a pro team to go undefeated on a tough college schedule, its still more unlikely than likely.
College players play in off-season leagues with minor league teams all the time and they often beat them. And not just D1 college players... I'm talking D2 and D3 also.
College has a ton of players who are there to play College baseball. And their dream ends.
There are still examples of college teams winning exhibition games against pro teams. Granted those teams are frequently made up of minor league players.
The MLB team would be favored in each game, but the odds would probably be against them going 60-0 or whatever the total number of games would be for a season.
With all this talk aside, I would pay a lot of money to see a game like this played.
Likewise, but I still think your delusional if you think a NCAA college baseball team will have any chance at beating an MLB team on the field.
Ehhhh who really knows. We'll never get the chance to actually witness a game like that being played.
Indeed. Very true.
