How did the world series begin anyway? It's so stupid. Oh gee, look. We're gonna play for the world Championship. Oh, look, only the Americans are playing.
just about everything you ask is way to overgeneralized. You really can't pick one single game as the start of the world series.
Ok Fine then. What can be considered somewhat like a world series where multiple leagues played for one title?
If that's what you meant, then, the original world series should be the post season competition between the American Association and the National League.
Ok, now we're getting somewhere.
yes. And this game was initially called the "The Championship of the United States," or the "World's Championship series."
Now that sounds like the world series.
And it was called that, for short. The first game was played in 1884, between the Providence Grays vs New York Metropolitans
These teams are not even around anymore.
Well, New York Metropolitans is called the New York Mets now. And the MLB didn't exist until 1903, which is most commonly referred to year as the year when the first World Series was played
Who played in that?
Boston Americans vs Pittsburg Pirates.
let me guess. Boston Americans became the Red Sox?
Yep.
Did Pirates win any world series?
Yep, They won the first inaugural series in 1903, and then a few more after that, and the last one they won was back in 1979
What's the deal was that shoeless Joe guy?
Black Sox Scandal. Shoeless Joe was an outfielder for the Chicago White Sox. And he and 8 other players were accused of fixing the world series to make some money from the gamblers at the time.
Did he do it? Did all 8 do it? All guilty?
Well, Chicago White Sox wouldn't win a world series until 2005. They call it the Curse of the Black Sox. Shoeless joe had a home run in the series, perfect fielding stats with no errors, had the highest batting average of 3.75 in the series. Yet he was banned from baseball for life along with the other 8. His records from the series show that he didn't throw the game. Thus the curse.
