Whats up with Kyle Schwarber?
Slow start after missing basically a full season and adjusting to a new position seems like a pretty reasonable explanation.
No doubting his long term potential but after 115 PA, he's only slugging .330 and he's striking out over 30% of the time.
That it is really really hard to hit in this league. I think he'll be fine and adjust. The league has learned some of his hot spots, and he'll adjust and be perfectly fine.
I'm not doubting that he'll rebound this season as well. My question is does anyone notice anything mechanically or perhaps were expectations too high coming into this season?
I mean, I think he's a .275/.360/.475 hitter this year, and more power in future years.
I don't question that he'll finish well and that its just a bad month but sometimes the struggles come from injury, a noticeable change in mechanics, etc.
Schwarber will get going. Although I personally don't know if he will ever be that superstar that his bat has the potential to be. I think he will be a solid 3 WAR guy. Just no superstar
Schwarber has time to become an elite player, and him playing left can be fine. But I'm not seeing passable defense yet, am I wrong?
No, probably not.
My concern with Schwarber is how is he fairing against RHP. Its totally common for even really good left handed hitters to struggle against LHP but he should be mashing right handers.
I mean, Schwarber comes with some higher expectations because he was an elite college bat.
But he was the 2nd best college hitter in that draft and he needed to be sent down after initial success when the league made adjustments to him.
Usually the top college bat in a draft ends up being a pretty solid hitter in the big leagues, and what minor league and MLB numbers have shown so far, he does appear to be legit.
I would certainly move him down in the order, maybe see if that can take that pressure off of him batting leadoff until he starts to find his groove.
I think Schwarber will be fine offensively
So its that its early and he will rebound?
I do think so. He's also been in the league exactly long enough, that the league knows his profile as a hitter now and are exploiting any weaknesses he may have.
He has to adjust back.
He will, don't throw him under the bus just yet.
