Hey, how's it going? Did you happen to see the last Pirate's game?
Oh hey! I'm doing good! And yeah, I finally caught a game; their last one.
They didn't play very well, did they? That was a pretty solid loss to the Phillie's huh?
Yeah, you're right. They really seem to be having a hard time gaining any momentum this year.
Yeah, I think you're right. It looked like they would be able to start the season off fairly strong too.
For sure. But then they lost like 6 or 7 games in a row. You just can't do that in their division.
You are so right. Their division is just too competitive to allow for a losing streak like that.
Well, I guess the only good news is that pretty every team in the division isn't necessarily playing their best right now.
That's too. Even with those losses the Pirates are only 8 or 9 games out of first place, which is at least something.
Oh yeah, for sure. They just need to really start picking up games that they shouldn't be losing.
I know exactly what you mean! They seem to have this terrible habit of dropping games to certain teams that just always have their number.
Oh, totally! Like the Brewers! The Pirates are a way more talented club right now. No way they should be dropping games to the Brewers.
Or teams like the Dodgers. I know the Dodgers are a better team, but still, they seem to always consistently give the Pirates a hard time.
You're right! There just always seem to be those teams that the Pirates just can't beat no matter what!
Yeah, that is just it. Well at least they picked up a few wins against the Nationals. DC is a pretty good team; that might be a good sign for the rest of the season.
You could be right, there. The other good thing is that it is still pretty early in the season; they have plenty of time to turn things around.
I hope so. And you're right about time; I don't think I will really get worried about the season until after the All-Star game.
Let's just hope they can build a little momentum before then!
Oh, for sure. I am pretty confident they will.
I hope you're right! Let's go Bucs!
