The Boston Red Sox are my favorite MLB team.
When I was growing up, Wade Boogs, Dwight Evans and Roger Clemens were my favorite Red Sox players.
My father's work had partial season tickets for the Red Sox and I went to about 100 games. I went to game 1 of the 1988 playoffs vs. Oakland.
Even though they were blown out in that game, it is was alot of fun to be at the park that night. Quite an event for sure!
The home team was booed by the crowd as they were in the process of getting destroyed. It was pretty classic Boston sports fans behavior.
Red Sox fans in specific, and Boston sports fans in general, a tough to please. You need to produce or they turn on you.
The fans are similar to Philly fans in that regard. Tough to please.
During my high school and college years of the late 80s into the mid 90s, the Red Sox slowly worsened and became a very bad team. I still watched them as often as I could.
The strike year of 94 was devastating. Not to only the Red sox, but baseball in general.
You see, Red Sox fans would come back and show interest in the team no matter what. But other teams did not have that luxury.
The strike of 94 almost killed baseball. But the yankees becoming a dynasty and all of the HRs hit during the steroid era rescued it.
Though they are now regarded as cheaters, sluggers like Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds made the country pay attention to them.
Though they cheated and used steroids, they were megastars. And baseball turned its eyes on the cheaters so it could prosper again.
The Yankees of the mid to late 90s and most of the 2000s helped too. They were a great team that I hated but respected.
Until 2004, it seemed like they were playing with the Red Sox.
Even after Pedro dominated the Yankees for the 1st half of his career, New York figured him out and was a thorn in his side.
Though Pedro battled and battled, he was only 170 pounds and often ran out of gas vs, the Yankees. The New Yorkers were patient and made him tire.
It was a battle to watch though! The greatness of Pedro vs. the grittiness of New York.
Eventually it worked out in the Red Sox favor in 2004, but it took an awfully long time for us Sox fans to get there.
It was well worth the wait though! 86 years of frustration gone!
