Who do you feel is the greatest baseball player of all time?  I have quite a few ideas myself.
Wow, that is a hot topic that would have plenty of good arguments.  I could only say fro sure that the most winning team was the Yankees. Great players mostly have great statistics
Sure, the hall of fame is full of players with high statistics that were consistent.  I would go with Ted Williams as the greatest hitter, although he was an average player in the field.  Then there are the players in the dead ball era.
There were quite a few players at and above Williams' level. How about Ty Cobb and Babe Ruth?
They were both quite fantastic in their times and there was much excitement and controversy around their careers and styles. I also liked Hank Aaron
Sure, he had the numbers and was very consistent for about 22 seasons.  The only controversy was when he approached the home run record.  Sadly, there was a lot of hating going on.
He was a good fielder and all around player.  A strong role model as well.  A credit to any team and someone to look up to.  He belongs higher on the list than he might actually be.
There were quite a few players with high numbers in the 80's to the 2000's that put up astounding performances like Mark McGuire, Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens and others that subsequently were found to have used performance enhancement drugs
Yeah, that got into the courts and some players were to have been found to even committed perjury i think.  It was really sad.
Sure for quite some time there were so many players that suddenly came to camp looking like the Incredible Hulk.  It was in all of the sports to some extent.  You can't really blame the athletes too much as they all wanted to achieve stardom, do it better and faster, be stronger to dominate
Yes, and many looked the other way as the hulks were drawing crowds with their exploits.  The players to really admire during this period are ones like Derek Jeter who never touched the stuff and played outstanding ball for a generation.
Absolutely, and it seems the ones that got caught up in the steroids are not getting into the Hall of Fame too fast either.
Yeah, guys like Mickey Mantle were pretty big but he was naturally with a great physique.  I guess the only thing you could say about him is that he hurt himself by drinking too much and didn't take very good care of himself.
Back to the great players.  There were a lot of great pitchers.  Of the more modern era I liked Nolan Ryan, with all those strikeouts.
Sure, He had a hundred mile an hour fastball and threw it until he retired in his late forties somehow.  He was very intimidating to the batters.
He wasn't known for hitting batters on purpose, the fast pitch was hard enough to hit and he was a tough guy but a pretty good sport.
One that did not get much notoriety was Hoyt  Wilhelm.  He didn't make the majors until his late 20's from his war service and was best known as a n awesome relief pitcher.
I think he hit a home run in his first big league at bat and had a screwball that was almost impossible to hit.  I don't know how many saves he had but i think he played until he was almost 50.
Now the pitchers usually only pitch for a few innings and are pulled for specialists like mid inning relievers and closers.  They usually only allow them to throw a certain number of pitches then pull them out to not strain them.
Well, I think the greatest of all time was Babe Ruth as he was a great pitcher who turned outfielder so he could play and hit every day.  He was another one that lived too fast and did his body harm from that.  I guess the argument would go on forever as long as the game will be played..
