What are you doing tonight?
I'm watching the Royals game on TV. Are you watching it?
No, I'm afraid to, I heard that Chris Young is pitching, he's been so horrible this year, we should have traded him last year.
No, he's not pitching, Danny Duffy is, but yes I agree about Chris Young. I can't believe the one game we saw in person this year he was pitching. What a waste of money.
My Mom was asking me why I thought hewas doing so poorly this year, I said I thought it was that he's lost about 3-5 mph off of all his pitches.
Well, that, plus, I think his arm slot is different, it seems like his pitches don't have much rotation.
What is the score in the game?
It's 3-3 in the 7th inning, they just put Al Albuquerque in. You should turn it on.
Albuquerque? When did we get him? How? I thought he was with the Tigers.
Yeah, he's pitched for everybody. Typical fill in journeyman. Like we don't have enough of those already.
I'm turning it on now, I have a feeling this will end badly.
Probably. At least some of our hitters are finally hot, Hosmer and Cain have scored the runs.
I don't know what we will do if they don't resign them. We will go back to being the worst team in baseball.
Well, they are going to be free agents soon, so it's better to get something for them than nothing.
I know, but it's like our entire World Series team has been totally dismantled. And not replaced with anyone good.
Oh, that's not true, we still have our 18 million dollar man who's hitting .150. He probably has some other injuy, again.
Gordon is such a waste of payroll.  I can't believe they signed him to that huge contract when he's always injured. We could have spent that money better elsewhere.
I know. oh, geez, Royals are now behind 4-3. Only 6 outs left to go ahead. Yeah, I feel real good about this- I knew I shouldn't have turned it on.
These last 2 seasons have just been soul crushing.  Guess we're back to the team we've had for the last 20 years- a losing one! Ugh!
I know. We may want to rethink going to see them play so many times when we go to California. It will probably be a real downer.
