One thing I will never forget in my lifetime is the night in 2004 when the Boston Red Sox won the world series. I remember waking up at 3-4AM and literally pinching myself and asking if that really happened.
One of my earliest memories is baseball ffrom the early 80s. My brother's favorite player was George Brett.
When Vince Coleman broke in with the Cardinals in 1985, I had never seen anything like him. He was the fastest human being I had ever seen.
The Red Sox were always my favorite team. No other team was even close.
When the Red sox lost the World Series in 1986, it broke my heart. Even though the games were on too late for me to watch the whole thing.
The Red sox were big underdogs against the Mets. The Mets were probably the best team in a decade.
The ALCS between the Angels and the Red Sox was a classic. I remember distinctly game 5 which the Red sox won when they should of lost.
Dave Henderson hit a homerun in extra innings in that game. That ultimately broke the Angels spirits.
Several years later the pitcher who gave up that homerun committed suicide. What a tragedy!
The 1986 Red Sox had Wade Boggs and Rogel Clemens. They were two of the best young players in the game.
Several years later, it was found out those 2 players had alot of personal demons. They are still HOF players.
Wade Boggs was addicted to sex. Roger Clemens was addicted to himself!
Both players eventually won WorldSeries with the Yankees. That made me sick.
Though I hate the Yankees, I have to respect them. They won so many World Series titles.
Especially in the late 1990s, the Yankees were good. The 1998 team was the best I ever saw.
They had so many gritty players. They were not superstars.
They just played well as a team. And they found a way to beat you.
Pedro Martines vs. the Yankees of the 1990s was much see TV. I could not keep my eye of those games.
Though honestly, Pedro vs. anyone was much see TV. He was that great.
Pedro in his prime was the best piutcher I had ever seen. No one else was really close in my opinion.
