What are your thoughts on the AFC South?
They are probably the weakest division in the NFL currently. The funny thing is that if one team were able to get their act together, they could easily dominate the division like the Patriots dominate the NFC East.
Totally agree with that assessment. If the Texans were just able to fix their quarterback situation, I think that they'd not only win the AFC South for years, but that they would also become a legitimate Super Bowl contender.
What's crazy about Houston is that Bill O'Brien was hired because he's this supposed offensive genius and he's already gone through several different quarterbacks in his short time there.
Yeah, I can understand failing with Ryan Mallett and Brian Hoyer, but he should have been able to succeed with Brock Osweiler.
I disagree with you on that point. Brock Osweiler was inconsistent and was prone to throw interceptions.
True, but this is also the guy who briefly took over for Peyton Manning during the Denver Bronco's 2015 Super Bowl Season and defeated Tom Brady's Patriots, which clinched the team home field advantage throughout the playoffs.
Agree to disagree on that point. However, if Bill O'Brien is able to properly develop Deshaun Watson, Houston will have an amazing offense for years to come.
I really liked Watson when he was at Clemson and am rooting for him in the NFL. However, I think that they drafted him too high and gave up too much to get him.
Only time will tell. I'm also surprisingly bullish on Jacksonville this season.
Really? That franchise hasn't been good since it started during the mid-1990s.
I acknowledge that it's been terrible for the past decade, but they just fired Gus Bradley and have made a lot of big name acquisitions in free agency.
The Gus Bradley firing was well overdue. However, Doug Marrone seems like a terrible head coach replacement given his mediocre record as the head coach for the Buffalo Bills.
Jacksonville has built a great defense and just needs to get its act together on offense. I believe that Marrone's offensive mind coupled with first round draft pick Leonard Fournette will result in the team's improvement.
I think that you're being sanguine regarding Jacksonville for the 2017 NFL season. I would contend that the Indianapolis Colts are better positioned to do well this year.
While Andrew Luck is a very talented quarterback, he is way too banged up to lead the Colts to success this year.
You're forgetting the fact that just two years ago, they were in the AFC Championship game.
The key part of that phrase is "two years ago." They have a terrible offensive line and defense, which makes it way too difficult for Luck to unilaterally carry the team.
I think that between their weapons on offensive like Hilton and their decent head coach, they have a shot to contend for the AFC South.
I just think that apart from Luck, the rest of that team is a mess. Their owner is erratic and creates a culture of chaos for that team.
