I used to go to minor league ball games.  They were exciting and the players were all trying to make a name for themselves.
I went to mostly Yankees games.  Like I saw that one armed pitcher Jim Abbott pitch a no hitter for 8 innings until it was broken up by a hit by Bo Jackson of the White Sox.
Cool. It must have been nice to be in that park.  I liked the minor league games as they were much cheaper to attend and sometimes big stars would play in rehab games or appear.
It does cost to go to the show.  That game I saw a Yankee steal home successfully.  Almost couldn't believe what i was looking at.
Reggie Jackson came to the minor league park as an attraction after he retired and put on a home run show.  He must have hit the ball about 500 feet about 15 times in towering drives.  That was cool.
Neat.  A few weeks after the Abbott game they played the Indians and that time he made a no hitter.  That was awesome.  What a thrill to see such a special game.
I bet.  The minor league games I attended were very fast paced and the players seemed to go full tilt for the whole game.  What some of them lacked in talent they made up for wit hustle and guts.
I was lucky in that we scored tickets from a well connected friend.  It lasted for a few years and all I needed to do was pay for food and the seats were great.
The minor league games were fun.  I remember there were a group of people in the upper deck that always wore aviators goggles and hats.
Ha ha that must have looked funny. I remember some of the fans used to heckle the players.  Didn't like that too much as it seemed pretty rude.
They had a couple funny mascots that ran around for the entire game.  They pulled all kinds of pranks and entertained the crowd.
I just remember the music playing on the organ.  They did not have a mascot so in dead time you had to pretty much entertain yourself.
Well I just liked the minor league park as it was close to home and very entertaining.  Those hot dogs were really good too and the kids loved it.
We went to a Phillies game once at the old Veteran's Stadium. It was like going to a fight and a baseball game broke out.  They were pretty rowdy there.
I don't remember seeing many scraps at the minor league park.  It was close a couple times and both benches cleared but the umps got it under control in time.
I don't remember seeing any fights at the Yankee games.  Just in the parking lot when everyone tried to leave at the same time.
They had special days at the park too, they gave away things like small bats, team balls, caps and the like.  Every week there was something else to draw the fans to the park.
I did not go to that many Yankee games.  I think it was about ten over a few years.  I do not remember if they had gimmicks.  Maybe some little trinkets.
It was so fun to go to the games. There were sights, sounds and smells that were at no other place and i will always remember them.
For sure.  If you got there at the right time they would let you go to the monument park and look at the bronze plaques  That was pretty cool too.  Nothing like going to the old ball game!
