Let's chat about old baseball history.  To way back in the day starting in the dead ball era.
Cool.  I read about many of those guys and remember seeing quite a few grainy films of them playing.
Back then in the early twentieth century If you hit 10 home runs that was awesome.  They seemed to play more for strategy and stealing bases.
Plus the ball was not lively like today.  The ball was wrapped much looser and could not travel as far when hit.
It didn't fly off of the end of the bat like they do now, to hit it over the fence took incredible power and many homers were inside the park ones.
Those guys could really run and hit, there were higher batting averages then too.  They really played as a team to win, double steals, hit and run, bunting.
Then the Bambino came and tore up the league with his power hitting and he was an awesome pitcher as well.  Quite a sensation he was.
Yeah, Boston was mad that he was sold to the Yankees.  Around then the ball was wrapped tighter and began to fly off of the bat.
Sure, the owners realized that fans liked the home runs and they wanted to please to get more fans in the seats.  Then the money came rolling in.
After a few years they started the hall of fame and later the color barrier was let down with the entry of Jackie Robinson.  Before then they had the old Negro leagues and had many awesome players that never came to the majore
Sometimes they would play the majors in exhibition games.  The Negro League teams usually did very well in them.
Many great players never played in the majors due to the color barrier and racism.  It was nice that the Hall of Fame devoted a wing to the old Negro Leagues and some of the great players from that era.
Who was the last batter to hit over .400?  The averages seem to have gone down as the homers increased.
That would be Ted Williams in 1941.  He was up there on the all time home run list about 521.  He had a high average for his lifetime too,
Yeah, he homered in his last at bat at age 42.  He sure went out with a bang and hit about .320 even at that age.
He was a remarkable player who went his own way.  Spent 5 years in the military in two wars.  Fighter pilot.  I guess he was a real life Superman if there ever was one!
Sure thing, its impossible to say who the greatest player ever is.  He would certainly be one of them.
Baseball has a remarkable history and surely was/is a national pastime.  It's hard to figure the salaries.  Now big stars get over 20 million a season with many perks.
Sure, guys like Mickey Mantle, for example made about 100,000 per year tops.  Even though it was years ago it is just hard to figure out.  Were the owners making that much back then?
That's a complicated issue.  I just liked seeing guys like Ty Cobb sliding hard into base.  Most of the players today aren't so aggressive.  Don't want to get hurt.  The old timers sure were a tough group.
