Did you ever see the movie 61*?
Yeah, that is a really good movie.  Its about Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle in 1961
The year both players made a run at the Babe Ruth home run record.
Sure, Thomas Jane played Mantle and Barry Pepper played Maris.  They did an awesome job and looked so much like them.
It was very historically accurate they even showed Roger smoking Camel unfiltered cigarettes.
I don't know how they got them to hit the ball so hard either.  The actors must have had to work hard on their playing skills.
That and some good editing and great camera work.  The other actors also did great performances.
They showed Whitey Ford always coming to the rescue of Mickey when he had too much to drink.  Some of the scenes were comical and others were a little sad.
Yeah the issue of Mickey abusing himself came up a few times and it was shown in a very realistic light.
Too bad neither Mickey or Roger lived to see the movie.  I bet they would have liked it, as it was done so well.
Yeah.  They even had Mrs. Babe Ruth in there giving out the MVP award to Roger at the start of the season.
Maris was somewhat of an under rated player.  He had two really good years at the plate and was just good the rest of the time.
He was an awesome fielder and good on the base paths.  He retired at a young age, about 33.  Died really young too
Yeah, he was a loner type and did not like the limelight.  He retired young after playing two years in St. Louis
They said he played his last year because the owner of the Cardinals agreed to set him up in the beer business.
Yeah, he was set up to have a job after baseball, smart move on his part.
Players were not paid much as compared to today back then they needed a second career.
Most of the guys probably blew a lot of the money they made on partying after the games.  Some invested though.
Yeah, they say Mrs. Babe Ruth tamed the Babe a bit and invested a lot of his money wisely so he would have something after his playing days ended.
It was a good thing for him as he spent his money like crazy just thinking about having a good time.  Mickey was a little like that too.  Good movie.
