Did you ever play baseball?  I did for one season in Babe Ruth ball.
Sure I was on little league through high school.  I was a decent outfielder and could hit pretty well at that level.
I kind of stunk.  Rode the bench and worked the concession stand mostly, Don't know how I got on the team.
No fun sitting on splinters all season.  I always felt for the bench riders.
At first i started out pretty well and tried for first base.  I got so i could field and throw well in the infield,
Well that's a good feeling I liked to throw too and had a pretty good arm. I could throw home from the wall if need be.
I guess the regular first baseman didn't like any competition.  He had about 50 pounds on me and during infield practice he was up and hit to third.  I stretched towards third to try to catch it and get him out and he instead ran right into my left side full steam rather than the base.
Ouch, that must have hurt.  What happened?
Nobody called him on it i guess they did not notice. I think he broke a rib or two and really damaged my left shoulder.
What happened to it?  That could be pretty serious.
I tried to be brave and sluff it off.  But after that I could not throw at all and had to throw underhanded.
That must have put the end to your try to play some at first.  Kids can be pretty mean sometimes.
Yeah, I guess today they can fix things like that, the rotator cuff is common repair but not back in those days.  I was done in.
What happened then?  Did you quit?
I was the bench rider and the coach let me run the concession stand and suit up.  He let me bat one time trying to give me a chance.
Did you get a hit? Did you get on?
Well I drew a walk so that was better than nothing.  The next batter popped up and it was caught and I was picked off.  What a bummer.
Well at least you got to bat one time.  Did you like being on the team?
Actually yes but i was not a very confident athlete so I just went out for track the next season and could run pretty well.  Ha Ha.  Didn't have to worry about hitting the ball or being run over by one of the biggest kids in school any more.
I was lucky as I was a pretty good natural athlete and was encouraged to play ball from an early age.  I had a pretty good career and kept my high school yearbook as there are a couple of pictures with me in action.  Baseball has so many good memories I just love it.
