Let's talk about our fantasy baseball teams.  I have 3 teams and only one of them is doing well.  I'm getting frustrated.
Tell me about it; i have 2 teams and neither is doing well.
I can't believe the number of injuries this year!  I can hardly keep up with them!
I know; did you hear that Familia has a blood clot in his arm and may miss the rest of the season?
I did hear that.  I'm sorry for him; but i'm also sorry for me.  He's my bullpen ace in one of my leagues.
I'm sorry for him too, but i'm glad i didn't draft him.  I'm okay with my relief pitchers; my main problem is hitting.  Most of my guys, like Bradley, are off to lousy starts.
I'm in the opposite situation than you.  I have enough bats, but my pitchers seem to either be having bad years, or are getting hurt.
So what's your strategy? do you look to trade underachievers, or do you like to hold onto them?
That's one of the things that makes fantasy baseball so frustrating.  I"m afraid if i dump some of these guys, they'll turn their seasons around as soon as another fantasy team picks him up.
LOL; yes, i have the same fear.  Did you hear that Bourn went on the disabled list?
WHAT? no i didn't hear that.  that's too bad, he's on one of my teams.
me too.  he's been hurt most of the year and i drafted him real early; i need his production.
What's the matter with him this time?
I'm not sure; it's either his knees or his calves.  He's on the 10-day disabled list.
Well, i guess it could have been worse.  Hey what do you think about this Bellinger; he's going crazy with the bat for the Dodgers.
Isn't he amazing? You know i had the chance to pick him up on waivers and i passed on him and now it's too late.  someone else picked him up.
by the time he made a believer out of me, it was too late for me too.  do you think he can keep up this production?
Well, he can't go on like this; i mean he has, i think, six homers and about 15 RBI in about 15 games.  no one can keep up that pace.
You're right; at some point the pitchers will pick up on his weaknesses.  he's due to go into a slump.
but even if he does, he has shown the Dodgers were correct in bringing him up from the minors.  Enjoy the games tonight!
