Hey pal let's talk about great and near great Yankee players over the past 30 years or so. Remember Andy Stankewitz?
Yeah he was a spark plug middle infielder who was traded just as Derek Jeter started to play.
He was a small guy that was all about hustle and was a good clutch hitter.and very good in the infield.
Yeah I remember seeing him play in a couple games he hit a home run to left field and played like a speedy machine for the games.
I saw him at Yankee fan day that winter and the fans were lined up at his booth more than anyone else. He was very friendly and autographed a picture for my young daughter which was a thrill for her.  It would have been nice if he could have made a career there.
Well, he was replaced by Jeter who turned out to be one of the greatest of all time.  Dang what an awesome guy.
Sure thing a steady consistent player who batted over .300 average with over 3,000 hits hall of fame for sure, 20 seasons.
The nice thing was that he was such a positive role model with no whining and all about his team and doing his best for the fans.
Yep, he earned the title of Captain and did a great job as Yankee Captain for years.  Others made more money but he left a legacy for all to look up to.
And don't forget that he homered for his hit number three thousand, what a player.
The man had no scandals either how unique is that in this day and age?
He was sure one of the best.  One of the greats was Don Mattingly on first.  Great hitter and team player also Captain.
He really produced for several years but sadly his back gave out and he decided to retire because he felt that he could no longer produce like he felt that the team deserved.
The saddest thing was that he led the team for at least a decade and retired just before the team went on to get back in the world series in 96.
Sure it was like Moses getting to see the promised land but not making it there for the last few steps.
Well said. Another that did well for the team but was filled with controversial issues is A Rod.  Great player, huge salary big home runs but failed to live up to his potential.
Sure he got caught up in the illegal substance scandals which will mar his legacy.
He did some class things too like when he was in the All star game early in his career playing short and Cal Ripken Jr. was in his last All Star game on third. You recall that.
I sure do he asked Ripken to switch with him as he felt that Ripken was the most awesome shortstop and should play his spot in that game.
That was a real classy move but the other scandals might delay his getting in the hall of fame for a while.  His stats were up there and could have been better had he been able to stay on the straight and narrow.
