First question, most obvious question, what should the LA Rams do with the No. 1 pick?
If you're asking what WILL the Rams do with the No. 1 pick, I think it's going to be stunning if they pick anyone other than Jared Goff at this point. Vegas has him as an incredible 1-to-15 favorite, and it makes sense from a whole lot of other angles as well.
As for what SHOULD they do? I think one can still make a strong argument for Carson Wentz, though I'm inclined to lean toward Goff in this phrasing too.
Well, if the Rams followed my advice, they wouldn't have traded for the top pick in the first place. They've clearly settled on Jared Goff, and he's definitely the more NFL-ready of the top-two quarterbacks. I still think Carson Wentz might have a higher ceiling. But in terms of winning right now, which the Rams have to do, Goff is the guy
Jack, what will fans like about Jared Goff?
I think he's the kind of guy that's not going to get shaken easily. It's not going to get much worse for him than what happened at Cal when he was a freshman, what with going 1-11 and all.
He definitely has a presence in the pocket that's unlike any other quarterback in this class. In fact, his pocket presence might be better than any QB in the last few drafts.
I talked to him last summer about that 2013 season, and what struck me was when he said that -- as bad as that season went -- he always believed he was the best player on the field. He said this while recognizing that it wasn't always true objectively, but stressed that that kind of self-confidence was important to his success.
Goff is used to playing with 4 WR's in a spread system. He might not have four WR's that belong on an NFL roster with the Rams offense, let alone on the field at one time.
That's a fair concern, though Goff did have a lot of control over playcalling in his final season.
And I don't want to be the guy who brings up his small hands, but ... well ... looks like I'm that guy.
The best "Air Raid" quarterback is probably ... Johnny Manziel? Who was pretty exciting to watch until his life careened into substance abuse problems and domestic violence allegations. Totally different QB than Goff is though.
You could make an argument that Case Keenum might be the best Air Raid QB in the NFL right now, honestly
And yeah, Jared Goff's hand size probably played a role in him fumbling the ball 23 times at Cal, but he did manage to cut that number down to 4 in his last season.
I think the hand size thing is probably less of an issue given that he'll be playing in Los Angeles rather than Cleveland.
I will say that I think the hand-size argument is a little overblown. Tony Romo has similarly small hands, too.
Case Keenum might be! And he honestly could open the season as the starter too. I don't think it'd shock anyone if the Rams waited a few weeks to throw in Goff.
I don't see a world where they wait on Jared Goff past Week 1.
This is true. Case Keenum isn't the one making an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel later this week.
That's great a discussion. Something tells me we, and Rams fans everywhere, will be talking about this draft for a long time.
