Which team are you rooting for in the upcoming football season?
I am a lifelong Denver Broncos fan so I will be rooting for them even though they were mediocre last year.
I remember they won the Super Bowl a couple years ago, so what happened to them?
Peyton Manning retired and they had an inexperienced quarterback take over named Trevor Siemian.
It really shows how much of an impact a quarterback can make on the whole team. Just look at Tom Brady's impact on the Patriots.
That is true. I had a feeling they were going to win the Super Bowl even when they were down by 25 points. Tom Brady just never lets his team give up.
That was an unbelievable Super Bowl. I'm still mad at how Atlanta's offensive coordinator Kyle Shanahan blew the game near the end!
Now Kyle is coaching the San Francisco 49ers this year. It will be interesting to see how well they do.
Who is the 49ers quarterback this year?
I think it is Brian Hoyer. It's amazing how Colin Kaepernick isn't even playing on any team this year when he used to be quite the player.
Players in the NFL definitely have a very short playing career. That's what makes the longevity of Tom Brady particularly amazing.
Speaking of that, I can't believe Tony Romo is retiring to be an announcer. I was hoping he would join the Broncos instead.
Dak Prescott really had an amazing year out of nowhere last year for the Cowboys. And Dak is a great football name, too.
That is what makes the NFL exciting, teams are always changing and you never know what can happen unlike other sports where the same team dominates for year after year.
It will also be interesting to see how the Raiders do in Las Vegas.
Vegas is a crazy city for having football games. I think the best fans are in cities like Buffalo or Green Bay where there is really no other entertainment.
That's true, you do tend to get the most die-hard fans in those type of cities.
It would be funny if they allowed open gambling in the stadium during the Raiders' home games.
Surprisingly the Raiders are being considered to have a pretty good chance to win this year's Super Bowl.
Interesting, I did see their quarterback Derek Carr just got a big contract. I hope it is another exciting year in the NFL.
