Who do you think is a better football team: the Baltimore Ravens or the Pittsburgh Steelers?
I'd that the Steelers are a lot better. Frankly, it's not even close.
Really? I agree that the Steelers are probably better, but it's not by a significant margin.
The Steelers have the best wide receiver in the NFL in Antonio Brown, the best running back in the NFL in Le'Veon Bell, and Ben Roethlisberger, who is a future hall of famer.
Regarding Ben Roethlisberger, the man is 35 and is beginning to think about retirement. He probably has three seasons left in him, maximum.
Who would you rather have as your quarterback then, Ben Roethlisberger or Joe Flacco?
To be honest, Flacco. He's much healthier and a much better quarterback in January.
Really? Flacco has only one Super Bowl appearance while Roethlisberger has three.
Yeah, but Roethlisberger has no Super Bowl MVPs and Flacco has one.
Super Bowl MVPs are an arbitrary metric. What matters more is Pro Bowl selections and Flacco has none.
That's a totally legitimate criticism of Flacco, but I'm talking about his potential for this season.
Let's put that issue aside for now. You still haven't addressed either Antonio Brown or Le'Veon Bell.
Le'Veon Bell is good when healthy but his physical playing style leaves him too susceptible to injury. My concerns with Antonio Brown tend to deal more with his off field maturity.
Are you referring to the locker room Facebook video incident following the Kansas City playoff game?
Yeah. Not only does it show that he doesn't take his job seriously, but it sheds light on Mike Tomlin's inability to keep his players disciplined.
While that situation was not ideal, I think it was overblown by the media. Furthermore, I don't understand your criticism of Mike Tomlin.
Tomlin is an overrated coach who inherited a Super Bowl winning team from Bill Cowher. He is very unprofessional and was caught on a nationally televised game attempting to interfere with a kickoff return.
I disagree entirely with that statement. Tomlin has been head coach for ten seasons now and the team has had seven playoff appearances during his tenure.
Can you address the kick off interference incident during the Thanksgiving game?
It was an honest mistake and the NFL did not find that it warranted giving up draft picks, which sort of clears him. However, I'll acknowledge that he did have to pay a hefty fine for it.
