Do you gamble on the NFL?
Yeah but it can be tricky.
How can I use the weather information to make better totals bets?
By getting early information. You’ll see adjustments to our lines once information comes out, but you still need to be careful; lousy weather doesn’t always = under. We’ve been burned by that misconception more than a few times
On analysis, is it better to put less weight on the passing & put more on rushing & defensive discipline?
Interesting question. I believe you need to incorporate both…it’s still a passing league and teams are shifting away from run-heavy offenses. Need to put equal weight on all phases of the game and find the strength of each team
Will there be fixed wagering limits on NFL in-play markets?
We have limits on live betting and will adhere to them at a minimum. However, we may at certain times increase limits for marquee games or as we see fit for certain games.
With the Seahawks record at (home field) CenturyLink, how does HFA factor into lines compared to the rest of the league?
Like any game, HFA is taken into account and incorporated into the line. As it’s week 1 and fresh off a Superbowl victory, Seattle, which is historically tough at home, will be extra raucous. That’s also taken into account when setting the line.
Do you expect lines to move a lot more early in the season until more info on teams comes in?
Absolutely. We need time like anyone else to figure out which surprises are legit. That means the lines aren’t as stable as they would be later in the season. Same is true of any sport.
Do you think that provides more value for bettors or more concerns?
it can be more value for those that take the time to evaluate and analyze, but it can also be concerning for those taking shots in the dark or making assumptions
How much does a team’s popularity factor into markets? Enough to move handicaps?
That’s tricky. Teams in high-population markets with good teams can move the markets, but our clientele is sharper than the average sportsbook’s, so our lines won’t move as much in that way.
Which teams get the biggest bumps that way?
It’s what you’d expect. Teams that make the Superbowl, that have national brands, that are fun to watch. It depends on he spread though…if you have the Broncos as a 14-point favourite, our clientele know there may be value on the dog because of the inflated line.
How does stronger enforcement of pass interference/illegal contact impact week 1 lines?
That’s a good question…hadn’t really considered it. I don’t think it affects the spread much because it’s a two-way game, but you may see an increase in the total points scored per game. We’ll watch that through the season and see if it has an effect, and whether it’s called as much as in pre-season.
