How do you think the Dallas Cowboys will do this season?
Based on their 13-3 record last season, I think that they have the best odds of making the Super Bowl of any team in the NFC.
Seriously? Have you seen their playoff record over the past 20 years?
Playoff games are always funny things and they should have won that 2015 game in Green Bay. Moreover, this is a much more experienced team than last year.
This season will only be Dak Prescott's second season. He's bound to regress.
That sometimes happens with sophomore quarterbacks, but not always. Ben Roethlisberger and Russell Wilson both won Super Bowls during their sophomore seasons.
Yeah, but more often than not, opposing teams learn how to better plan for quarterbacks after their rookie seasons, which leads to regression.
While this may be the case, Dallas's offensive advantage largely stems not from the quarterback position, but from their running game and their amazing offensive line.
I can't argue with you on their offensive line. However, their leading rusher is still under investigation from the NFL and could be suspended for part of next year.
While I remain concerned regarding the Ezekiel Elliott situation, I doubt that he will be suspended for more than 4 games, if that. Also, their offensive line is so strong that it won't matter much who runs the ball.
So you think that a 29-year old Darren McFadden could be their leading rusher?
Darren McFadden would probably not be a great leading rusher. However, they have Alfred Morris, who was amazing in Washington during his early career.
I totally forgot about him. However, he went from Pro Bowl to back up in less than two seasons.
Morris was overworked and under protected in Washington. The situation in Dallas is much better.
I guess we'll have to see. Also, I'm very concerned about Dallas's defense this season.
Really? Sean Lee continues to be one of the most underrated defensive players in the league and should lead an effective defense.
Lee is great when he's healthy, which is not often.
I think that between Lee's leadership and some promising players in the defensive secondary, defense should not be a major issue for Dallas.
All I know is that they were ranked 26th against the pass last year. I would be more concerned about their defense if I were you.
Between Dak Prescott, Ezekiel Elliott, and Dez Bryant, they can easily score enough points per game to overcome any defensive issues.
