You looking forward to the NFL season this year?
No, not really actually?
Really, you? You used to be such an avid fan and you used to go with your dad to see every single home game?
Well, yeah, I guess I've soured a bit on the money aspect of the game. I was a pretty big St. Louis Rams fan as you know, and I just think that city got the shaft.
Yeah, I can understand that you're upset. I suppose if you have an allegiance to a city that no longer has a team you might feel cheated.
Yeah, I sure do. I've analyzed what went down with the decision to move the NFL from St. Louis to L.A. and from every angle I think the city got screwed.
Don't you think San Diego and Oakland feel the same way?
They may feel the same way, but the fact remains, particularly in the case of Oakland, the city offered no public money. St. Louis did ... big time.
Yeah, I forgot about that point. But I guess some people feel that going back to L.A. is sort of karma to St. Louis.
You have to draw the line somewhere. The Rams used to be somewhere else before L.A. and St. Louis - why not move that team back there?
Yeah, but haven't the last superbowls been exciting?
Sure, but sometimes you have to put principal ahead of having fun.
Yup. I know a lot of people agree with you - probably in St. Louis, San Diego and Oakland.
There are particularly two incidents from the whole St. Louis to L.A. move that still bother me.
Yeah, like what?
Well, first is the owners vote. Originally, there weren't enough owners voting to move the group. Then, when they took a "blind" vote where owners didn't have accountability to their vote, they voted to move the team.
In other words, if the owners didn't have to be wedded publicly to their vote, then they voted for the money.
Precisely. Then, St. Louis also met every guideline presented by the NFL. According to Dave Peacock, the guy spearheading the Rams in St. Louis movement, the NFL were very, um, shady in their dealings.
Well, look, from the perspective outside St. Louis, the headline was "Rams back to L.A." not "St. Louis gets screwed".
Very true. All of this is why I've cooled on the NFL.
