Who do you think will be the five best receivers in the NFL next year?
I would say Antonio Brown would be the top receiver, followed by Odell Beckham Jr., Julio Jones, Dez Bryant, and Rob Gronkowski.
Does Rob Gronkowski count? He's a tight end.
You just said receiver. You didn't specify that they had to be a wide receiver.
Fair enough. While Rob Gronkowski is a great player and a lock to make the Hall of Fame after he retires, he's too injury prone for me to put in my top five.
That's a fair criticism. However, he's Tom Brady's best offensive weapon by far and his size and speed can't be matched by any defender.
True, but he was injured for the second half of last season and the Patriots were still able to win the Super Bowl without him.
I think that had more to do with the football genius of Bill Belichick coupled with Tom Brady's excellence at quarterback.
That's an entirely different subject for debate. Back to the original question though, do you really think that Dez Bryant is currently a top five receiver?
Without hesitation. He's one of the best physical wide receivers in the league and helps open up the running game for Dallas.
While that might be true, he is a terrible route runner that has too much trouble getting seperation from defenders.
That's not ideal, but he is still able to catch the ball in spite of double coverage on key plays.
I think his record is mixed on that front. Furthermore, I feel that his inability to control his emotions causes him to be a distraction, which hurts his team.
You say emotional, I say passionate. You probably wouldn't put Odell Beckham Jr. in your top five I guess.
I would in terms of talent. However, I would put him in the fourth or fifth position.
Really? His speed and catching range are not just the best in the NFL right now, but potentially all time great.
I agree that he is among the best receivers, if not the best receiver, in terms of talent. However, he's too temperamental, especially in his match ups against Josh Norman.
I believe that in his last match up against Josh Norman, Norman was the one with all the penalties and getting overly emotional.
True, but this is following too match ups where Norman obviously got the better of Beckham Jr. Furthermore, the boat trip before the Green Bay playoff game last year demonstrated poor decision making on his part and hurt his team.
The criticism surrounding that boat trip is ridiculous. The trip was during the Giants day off and Odell Beckham Jr. did not miss any of the required practices that week.
