I actually like Denver Broncos for winning this year.
Why do you think they could win versus the Patriots?
They have a well balanced team and a young quarterback.
I actually think the New Orleans Saints may be tough again this year. Drew Brees is still great.
Yes, you have a point but don't forget about the Atlanta Falcons. The Patriots stole the Superbowl from them in the last few minutes of the game.
You are right. They will be really hungry for a Superbowl trophy.  I bet they are still upset about the loss in the game.
For the Patriots to score 19 points in the fourth quarter to win had to kill the Falcon's enthusiasm.
I think that has to be the upset of the last 10 years! Everyone is still talking about it.
I think the NFL draft this year will make a huge difference for a number of teams. My favorite was Christian McCaffrey from Stanford.
Yes he's fast as a running back but I don't know if it will help the Carolina Panthers that much since he is so small.
My favorite was Addree' Jackson from USC although I will admit I'm partial to USC. Juju is so fast and explosive as a return man and a corner back.
He is fun to watch. He has the speed without a doubt. However, he doesn't have the obvious size or strength. I will admit there are not many athletes with his talent.
We will just have to watch him play with Tennessee Titans and see how he does.
This conversation is getting me excited for Pre-Season games. I can't wait for August to get here.
As a Los Angeles resident, I am crossing my fingers that the Rams will have a better year.
They did not do very well last year. The new kid from UCLA did not really perform very well.
Yes, Jared Goff. He did have a disappointing first year. Unfortunately, he was really only allowed to play starting mid-season.
OK. I'll keep my opinions regarding him open until he can get a fair chance this upcoming season.
The big excitement for this area is that the San Diego Chargers are moving to Los Angeles for the 2017-2018 season.
Wow. Two NFL teams will be located in Los Angeles. The great thing is that there are so many football fans that they will be able to support both of them.
