Do you think that the Seattle Seahawks could make another Super Bowl appearance this year?
That team is past its prime and will likely relinquish their grip on the NFC West within the next three years.
Seattle has a great quarterback and dominant defense. What more could you want?
Russell Wilson is an undersized game manager.
That's unfair! He's probably one of the most accurate and mature quarterbacks in the NFL right now.
From everything I hear, he's a great guy. However, if you put him on a bad team, he probably couldn't make them win.
Now we're getting into hypothetical territory. You still haven't addressed their defense.
The Seahawks defense was all-time great two or three years ago. Now they're just old and overpaid.
Harsh! You don't think that the Legion of Boom is still one of the top defensive secondaries in the league?
They're way too injury prone. Last season, Earl Thomas broke his tibia before the playoffs and they apparently didn't even report Richard Sherman's sprained MCL.
Football players are always playing through injury. I'm sure that there are a lot of banged up players that we don't know about in the NFL.
When you couple the injuries with their increasing ages and their large contracts, I don't see how Seattle can continue to compete moving forward.
Seattle still has one of the best front offices with John Schneider as GM. This is the guy who picked Russell Wilson, Richard Sherman, and Kam Chancellor in the later rounds of the draft after all.
True, but I haven't seen any great late round draft picks from Seattle in the last two seasons. Moreover, I keep reading reports of tensions between the players in the Seattle locker room.
Are you referring to the alleged Richard Sherman-Russell Wilson feud?
I'm more so referring to how Pete Carroll takes such a hands off attitude in controlling players that it ultimately manifests in a lack of discipline. Richard Sherman should not have been able to yell at a coach last season regarding an offensive play call.
I feel that Pete Carroll's light touch approach allows the players to relax and play better. Also, Richard Sherman was right about that offensive call.
Whether he was right or wrong is an entirely different subject. My argument is that you can't run a team where everyone is trying to lead.
Until that light touch approach begins to manifest itself on the football field, I won't criticize Pete Carroll for it. I saw an interview with Michael Bennett the other week and he said that Carroll's light touch approach was useful in attracting free agents to the team.
Maybe that's true, but I would say that Seattle's recent success coupled with Washington's lack of an income tax play bigger factors in attracting free agents.
