What is the most evenly matched division in the NFL today?
I would have to say the NFC East. Did you know that no team has finished first in the NFC East in consecutive years since the Eagles in 2004.
That's really interesting. I just think that the Dallas Cowboys and the New York Giants are far superior to the Philadelphia Eagles and the Washington Redskins.
While I think that the Eagles are probably the worst NFC East team going into the season, they have a great young quarterback and could be competitive. Everyone forgets that they started last season with a 4-0 record.
True, but both the Redskins and the Eagles lack organizational strengths of the Giants and Cowboys.
Are you seriously contending that the Jerry Jones-owned and operated Cowboys exhibit organizational strength?
Jerry Jones gets a bad reputation because of his crazy actions as GM during the late 1990s and 2000s. However, his focus on drafting a strong offensive line demonstrates how he has begun to mature as a GM.
The Dallas Cowboys is an organization that allows Dez Bryant to be late to or miss numerous meetings per year. How is that a strong organization?
I acknowledge that Dez being late to meetings was a major issue in the past, but they're working to solve it. However, it is undeniable that in recent years, they have drafted the best offensive line, the best running back, and the best young quarterback in football.
True, but much of Dak Prescott's success was due to the fact that teams didn't know how to prepare for him last season. I doubt that he'll be as good this season.
I think he's going to stay the top quarterback in the NFC East this season.
That's ridiculous! There is no way he is better than Eli Manning.
Eli Manning has led the league in interceptions on numerous occasions. Although he's a two-time Super Bowl MVP, both were very fluky.
It's hard to consider his Super Bowl wins flukes when he did it against Tom Brady, arguably the greatest quarterback ever, both times.
I have no problem referring to his wins as flukes. He won his first Super Bowl off a crazy helmet catch from David Tyree and won the second Super Bowl because Wes Welker dropped a pass.
Regardless, Eli Manning has provided stability to the Giants since he was drafted and has an unmatched ability to remain calm under pressure.
I just think that the Giant's recent success has more to do with Odell Beckham Jr. and their defense than it has to do with Manning.
Odell Beckham Jr. is another overly emotional wide receiver that is a distraction to his team.
That argument is so old at this point that it's not even worth going into. He filled the void that Victor Cruz left following his series of injuries.
I just think that it will be hard for the Giants to reach another Super Bowl if Odell Beckham Jr. does not take things more seriously.
