Who is the best quarterback in the NFL currently?
I would say Aaron Rodgers.
Not Tom Brady?
Tom Brady just plays for the best team in the league. I think that a sizable portion of his success is attributable to having Bill Belichick as his coach and general manager.
You're not giving Brady enough credit. You don't win five Super Bowls without having immense talent.
I'm not saying that he's not talented, but his first three Super Bowls had more to do with a dominant defense than Brady's play at quarterback.
All I know is that last season, Brady led the greatest comeback in Super Bowl history against the Atlanta Falcons while Aaron Rodgers collapsed against them in the NFC Championship Game.
That is true, but incomplete. Let us not forget that Aaron Rodgers had just completed an improbable eight-game winning streak and had lost his leading receiver Jordy Nelson to injury two games prior.
How does losing one player two games back explain his 44-21 drubbing during the NFC Championship game? Let us also not forget that the Packers were down 24-0 at halftime of that game.
So he had a bad game. He still has the best combination of smarts, throwing ability, and situational awareness of any quarterback in the NFL today.
Which is why he has only made it to the Super Bowl once, right?
It's not his fault that his defense always gets injured.
According to his defenders, it's never his fault. There have been numerous reports from his teammates that he can be difficult to work with, which can be detrimental to the team.
All great quarterbacks can be difficult to work with. If you go on YouTube, you can easily find videos of Tom Brady and Peyton Manning getting into arguments with their coaches and teammates.
Yeah, but I don't think that there exists the same level of resentment from those people towards Manning and Brady as there exists towards Aaron Rodgers.
Let's agree to disagree. So I guess based on your previous comments that you think that Brady is the best quarterback in the NFL right now.
I think that he's the best quarterback not just currently, but of all time. However, if I were to start a team right now, I would pick Andrew Luck just based on age.
Why Andrew Luck? He's been banged up so much the last few seasons that the damage might be irreversible.
He still possess the size, strength, and smarts to be an elite quarterback.
I just find him overrated. Ever since making the AFC Championship Game in 2015, he hasn't been able to return to the playoffs.
