Do you think football players are making too much money these days?
Not really. I think considering how much punishment they put their bodies through, I think it's fair.
I guess you can say that. But still, there's a lot of jobs out there that are physically risky where they don't get paid as much as athletes.
Yeah, but have you seen all the latest reports of athletes developing all these different types of disabilities after their playing careers?
Yeah, they're pretty scary.
That's why I think them getting paid a lot of money is just right.
But there has to be a point where the individual's themselves realize that they're signing up for the risk. Like I said, there are a lot of other jobs that are dangerous, too.
I think it's not that simple. These football players are getting paid a lot because the NFL makes so much money, too.
Correct. But that's usually the rewards the owners and investors get for taking the risk.
You don't think the football players should get some of that money if they're putting their bodies on the line for a more entertaining product?
Yes, to some degree. But getting paid millions of dollars to play a game a few times a year is absurd.
The way I see it, if the NFL can afford to pay them their salaries they should do it. They makes so much money because the fans continue to pay to watch the sport.
I just think the money should rather go back to the fans. Football tickets these days are ridiculous.
Well, if fans continue to pay for those ticket prices, then the owners and league definitely aren't going to make them cheaper.
I guess that's where my frustrations lie from. The fans pay the players' salaries and make the owners rich without any kind of reward.
That's kind of how business works. The fans pay for a product and get what they pay for.
I just think that there has to come a time where the NFL starts showing their appreciation to the fans.
I agree with that to some level.
Maybe I should have became a football player. I would love to make millions.
I'm fine with just watching them. Millions of dollars isn't worth my health.
