Do you think the Falcons can bounce back after that crushing Super Bowl loss?
Yeah, I think they'll use it as motivation to practice and play harder.
I think their defense will also be better.
They've added a lot of speed on defense. And having Poe in the middle of the line will be an improvement.
Yes, and they'll get Trufant back. That will take some pressure off the other defensive backs.
What do you think of the offensive coordinator situation? Do you think Sarkisian is as innovative as Kyle Shanahan was?
Sarkisian is unproven, but I've heard good things from a lot of insiders.
I blame Shanahan for the Super Bowl loss. I'm sort of glad to see him go.
Me, too. Run the ball and eat up clock when you're up 28-3!!!
I think Ryan will have a harder time this year. He's getting used to a new offensive coordinator, and the line is a little shakier than last year.
Yeah, they have to keeps a clean pocket for him to be effective. Especially on downfield throws.
If the line can keep the pocket clean for five seconds, Ryan will find someone open. They have so many good pass catching options.
Yeah, teams can't double Julio every play or the other receivers will burn them one on one.
If Julio stays healthy, this will be another special year for him and Ryan.
Julio is a beast when he's healthy, but he's had a lot of foot problems. I hope he's getting proper treatment and training to prevent foot injuries.
I think Arthur Blank really wants a championship in the inaugural season at the new stadium. If they don't make it back to the Super Bowl, I think he'll make major changes in the front office.
I think Quinn is safe as long as it's clear the team is listening to him, but Dimitroff is deservedly on the hot seat.
The front office has done a better job under Dimitroff the past couple of years, but they were lousy for the few years before that.
I'm surprised he kept his job so long after all those draft busts.
He's seemed to have added good front office personnel, and I think Quinn has helped selecting players, as well.
